Rapid and efficient contact tracing is one of the most important tools we have to find COVID-19 and stamp it out. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app now and remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. You might be interested in --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. The NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus. Scan QR codes wherever you are, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Washing your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. --- Section Separator --- 1 February 2021 media conference 29 January 2021 media conference 28 January 2021 media conference 27 January 2021 media conference 16 November media conference --- Section Separator --- Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori New Zealand Sign Language عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Large print and audio Easy Read
Home COVID-19 Alert System About the Alert System --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency Likely the disease is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services. For example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. High risk the disease is not contained. Multiple cases of community transmission occurring. Multiple active clusters in multiple regions. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to, or for local recreation. Physical distancing of 2 metres outside home, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. People must stay within their immediate household bubble, but can expand this to connect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools (years 1 to 10) and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open, but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses cannot offer services that involve close personal contact, unless it is a supermarket, primary produce retailer, pharmacy, petrol station or hardware store providing goods to trade customers, or it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. For example, libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited. For example, for critical workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Limited community transmission could be occurring. Active clusters in more than 1 region. People can connect with friends and family, and socialise in groups of up to 100, go shopping, or travel domestically, if following public health guidance. Keep physical distancing of 2 metres from people you do not know when out in public or in retail stores. Keep 1 metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces, where practicable. No more than 100 people at gatherings, including weddings, birthdays and funerals and tangihanga. Businesses can open to the public if following public health guidance including physical distancing and record keeping. Alternative ways of working encouraged where possible. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated, seated, and served by a single person. Maximum of 100 people at a time. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and physical distancing where practical. Public venues such as museums, libraries and pools can open if they comply with public health measures and ensure 1 metre physical distancing and record keeping. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have more than 100 people at a time, provided that there are no more than 100 in a defined space, and the groups do not mix. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19, such as those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and seniors, are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work, if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. Face coverings required on public transport and aircraft, but not inter-island ferries. School buses and children under 12 are exempt along with passengers in taxis or rideshare services and people with disabilities or mental health conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 2 The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Sporadic imported cases. Isolated local transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and legally must operate safely. No restrictions on personal movement but people are encouraged to maintain a record of where they have been. No restrictions on gatherings but organisers encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry hands, cough into elbow, do not touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if sick. No restrictions on workplaces or services but they are encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency --- Section Separator --- Likely the disease is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services. For example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. --- Section Separator --- High risk the disease is not contained. Multiple cases of community transmission occurring. Multiple active clusters in multiple regions. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to, or for local recreation. Physical distancing of 2 metres outside home, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. People must stay within their immediate household bubble, but can expand this to connect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools (years 1 to 10) and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open, but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses cannot offer services that involve close personal contact, unless it is a supermarket, primary produce retailer, pharmacy, petrol station or hardware store providing goods to trade customers, or it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. For example, libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited. For example, for critical workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Limited community transmission could be occurring. Active clusters in more than 1 region. People can connect with friends and family, and socialise in groups of up to 100, go shopping, or travel domestically, if following public health guidance. Keep physical distancing of 2 metres from people you do not know when out in public or in retail stores. Keep 1 metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces, where practicable. No more than 100 people at gatherings, including weddings, birthdays and funerals and tangihanga. Businesses can open to the public if following public health guidance including physical distancing and record keeping. Alternative ways of working encouraged where possible. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated, seated, and served by a single person. Maximum of 100 people at a time. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and physical distancing where practical. Public venues such as museums, libraries and pools can open if they comply with public health measures and ensure 1 metre physical distancing and record keeping. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have more than 100 people at a time, provided that there are no more than 100 in a defined space, and the groups do not mix. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19, such as those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and seniors, are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work, if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. Face coverings required on public transport and aircraft, but not inter-island ferries. School buses and children under 12 are exempt along with passengers in taxis or rideshare services and people with disabilities or mental health conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Sporadic imported cases. Isolated local transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and legally must operate safely. No restrictions on personal movement but people are encouraged to maintain a record of where they have been. No restrictions on gatherings but organisers encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry hands, cough into elbow, do not touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if sick. No restrictions on workplaces or services but they are encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wear a face covering Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Travel to New Zealand Staying at home if you’re sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. What to do if you’re sick If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms Getting a COVID-19 test Keep up good handwashing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy Continuing good habits with face coverings will keep you and others safe, even at Alert Level 1. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. You legally must wear a face covering when you’re travelling on a domestic flight anywhere in New Zealand. This does not include private flights. We encourage you to use face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, like in supermarkets. Be prepared by having a supply of face coverings for everyone who usually lives in your household. Add some to your household emergency kit. Wear a face covering Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Some people do not need to wear face coverings. Wear a face covering, and who needs to wear them At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to continue tracking where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help with contact tracing, if required. You can use the NZ COVID Tracer app on public transport, in workplaces and when visiting businesses and shops. You can also add manual entries for places you've been that do not have a QR code poster. NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Alternatively, you can keep your own diary with details of places you’ve visited, the time you were there and who you were with. How to keep track of where you’ve been Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster to help customers to keep track of where they’ve been. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it’s still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you’re sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. What to do if you’re sick If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms Getting a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Keep up good handwashing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy --- Section Separator --- Continuing good habits with face coverings will keep you and others safe, even at Alert Level 1. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. You legally must wear a face covering when you’re travelling on a domestic flight anywhere in New Zealand. This does not include private flights. We encourage you to use face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, like in supermarkets. Be prepared by having a supply of face coverings for everyone who usually lives in your household. Add some to your household emergency kit. Wear a face covering Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Some people do not need to wear face coverings. Wear a face covering, and who needs to wear them --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to continue tracking where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help with contact tracing, if required. You can use the NZ COVID Tracer app on public transport, in workplaces and when visiting businesses and shops. You can also add manual entries for places you've been that do not have a QR code poster. NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Alternatively, you can keep your own diary with details of places you’ve visited, the time you were there and who you were with. How to keep track of where you’ve been Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster to help customers to keep track of where they’ve been. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it’s still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 2 there may be some situations where you need to self-isolate or go into a quarantine facility. Who needs to self-isolate or quarantine, and how testing works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy You should keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses are legally required to display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. They legally must also have an alternative contact tracing system. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster At Alert Level 2, you can leave home, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep at least: 2 metres in public and in retail stores, like supermarkets and clothes shops. 1 metre in most other places like workplaces, cafes, restaurants and gyms. Physical distancing detailed information At Alert Level 2 the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You: legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft are encouraged to wear face coverings in situations where physical distancing is not possible, like in shops. Face covering advice and requirements You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You should not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Local travel restrictions You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 2 or lower. Regional travel There are controls at the border for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Travel to New Zealand No more than 100 people at social gatherings, including weddings, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. There are specific restrictions at Alert Level 2 depending on the type of gathering: Gatherings, event facilities and public facilities Eating out and getting takeaways safely Going out to bars and night clubs Funerals and tangihanga Religious communities You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, if you can do them safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 Gatherings, events and public facilities Businesses can open, but they legally must follow public health rules. These include physical distancing and record keeping. How to do business at Alert Level 2 Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 Early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are open to all ages. There are some restrictions if a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 is found related to an educational facility. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 2 there may be some situations where you need to self-isolate or go into a quarantine facility. Who needs to self-isolate or quarantine, and how testing works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy You should keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses are legally required to display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. They legally must also have an alternative contact tracing system. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can leave home, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep at least: 2 metres in public and in retail stores, like supermarkets and clothes shops. 1 metre in most other places like workplaces, cafes, restaurants and gyms. Physical distancing detailed information At Alert Level 2 the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You: legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft are encouraged to wear face coverings in situations where physical distancing is not possible, like in shops. Face covering advice and requirements You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You should not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Local travel restrictions You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 2 or lower. Regional travel There are controls at the border for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- No more than 100 people at social gatherings, including weddings, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. There are specific restrictions at Alert Level 2 depending on the type of gathering: Gatherings, event facilities and public facilities Eating out and getting takeaways safely Going out to bars and night clubs Funerals and tangihanga Religious communities --- Section Separator --- You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, if you can do them safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 Gatherings, events and public facilities --- Section Separator --- Businesses can open, but they legally must follow public health rules. These include physical distancing and record keeping. How to do business at Alert Level 2 Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are open to all ages. There are some restrictions if a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 is found related to an educational facility. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Advice about what to do if you’re in Northland. Advice about what to do if you’re in Auckland region. Advice about what to do if you’re in Greater Wellington region. Advice about what to do if you’re in Canterbury region. --- Section Separator --- Advice about what to do if you’re in Northland. Advice about what to do if you’re in Auckland region. Advice about what to do if you’re in Greater Wellington region. Advice about what to do if you’re in Canterbury region.
Home COVID-19 Alert System Regional advice Auckland --- Section Separator --- Two cases who completed their managed isolation in the same facility and at the same time as the Northland case are now confirmed COVID-19 infections. The two positive cases completed quarantine on 15 January and have been residing in North Auckland since. On 24 January, the Ministry of Health reported that a positive case of COVID-19 had been detected in Northland. The positive COVID-19 case recently completed their stay in Auckland managed isolation facility, The Pullman Hotel. Before they tested positive, the case visited some locations in Northland and Auckland regions. Find out what you need to do if you visited these locations around the same time. If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 Locations of interest for the two Auckland cases and the earlier Northland case are available on the Ministry of Health website. Anyone who visited one of the listed locations during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a COVID-19 ‘casual contact’. Find out more about the locations of interest (external link) Learn more about contract tracing (external link) While the risk is most often very low, if you visited one of the listed locations at the times stated, you need to do the following: Stay at home. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to get a test. Stay at home until you receive a negative test result. If you receive a negative test, keep watching your symptoms for the next 14 days. If you develop any COVID-19 symptoms, get another test. Wash your hands regularly with soap and water, or with hand sanitiser. There is very high demand for tests from people who have not been to locations of interest, are not symptomatic and who are not the priority for testing. If you were not at a location of interest at the stated times and you have no symptoms, you do not need to be tested. If you have symptoms but you did not visit a location of interest, stay home and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Learn more about how to get tested for COVID-19 A number of walk-in / drive-thru community testing centres will be open in Auckland — some with extended hours. These can be found on the ARPHS website and Healthline will have this information too. The website also includes extra pop-up community testing centres, targeted to North Auckland. Find a community testing centre in the Auckland region (external link) Auckland Regional Public Health Service translated information and resources about COVID-19 in a range of languages. View translated information about COVID-19 (external link) If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and get advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. Employers have an important role to support employees and customers to follow public health guidelines. Support New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19 by ensuring that: you display your QR code your employees can stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work. If you operate a public-facing business in central Auckland, encourage your staff to wear masks or face coverings. How to do business safely at Alert Level 1 Encourage your employees to stay home if they’re sick and get a test. If a staff member has COVID-like symptoms, they should get tested and stay home until they get a negative result. You can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme to help you pay employees who are told by a health official that they need to self-isolate and who can’t work from home. A health official can be: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate (e.g. a DHB Public Health Unit) a medical practitioner, for example, a doctor (GP) a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process their employer (for healthcare, disability or aged-care workers) following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. Learn more about financial support for businesses Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat COVID-19. Only share information from official sources. You can always find accurate and timely information on the Unite Against COVID-19 website www.covid19.govt.nz and the Ministry of Health website www.health.govt.nz (external link) Our social media channels are also updated frequently – follow Unite Against COVID-19 on Facebook www.facebook.com/UniteAgainstCOVID19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Two cases who completed their managed isolation in the same facility and at the same time as the Northland case are now confirmed COVID-19 infections. The two positive cases completed quarantine on 15 January and have been residing in North Auckland since. On 24 January, the Ministry of Health reported that a positive case of COVID-19 had been detected in Northland. The positive COVID-19 case recently completed their stay in Auckland managed isolation facility, The Pullman Hotel. Before they tested positive, the case visited some locations in Northland and Auckland regions. Find out what you need to do if you visited these locations around the same time. If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest for the two Auckland cases and the earlier Northland case are available on the Ministry of Health website. Anyone who visited one of the listed locations during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a COVID-19 ‘casual contact’. Find out more about the locations of interest (external link) Learn more about contract tracing (external link) --- Section Separator --- While the risk is most often very low, if you visited one of the listed locations at the times stated, you need to do the following: Stay at home. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to get a test. Stay at home until you receive a negative test result. If you receive a negative test, keep watching your symptoms for the next 14 days. If you develop any COVID-19 symptoms, get another test. Wash your hands regularly with soap and water, or with hand sanitiser. There is very high demand for tests from people who have not been to locations of interest, are not symptomatic and who are not the priority for testing. If you were not at a location of interest at the stated times and you have no symptoms, you do not need to be tested. If you have symptoms but you did not visit a location of interest, stay home and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Learn more about how to get tested for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- A number of walk-in / drive-thru community testing centres will be open in Auckland — some with extended hours. These can be found on the ARPHS website and Healthline will have this information too. The website also includes extra pop-up community testing centres, targeted to North Auckland. Find a community testing centre in the Auckland region (external link) --- Section Separator --- Auckland Regional Public Health Service translated information and resources about COVID-19 in a range of languages. View translated information about COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and get advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- Employers have an important role to support employees and customers to follow public health guidelines. Support New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19 by ensuring that: you display your QR code your employees can stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work. If you operate a public-facing business in central Auckland, encourage your staff to wear masks or face coverings. How to do business safely at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Encourage your employees to stay home if they’re sick and get a test. If a staff member has COVID-like symptoms, they should get tested and stay home until they get a negative result. You can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme to help you pay employees who are told by a health official that they need to self-isolate and who can’t work from home. A health official can be: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate (e.g. a DHB Public Health Unit) a medical practitioner, for example, a doctor (GP) a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process their employer (for healthcare, disability or aged-care workers) following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. Learn more about financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat COVID-19. Only share information from official sources. You can always find accurate and timely information on the Unite Against COVID-19 website www.covid19.govt.nz and the Ministry of Health website www.health.govt.nz (external link) Our social media channels are also updated frequently – follow Unite Against COVID-19 on Facebook www.facebook.com/UniteAgainstCOVID19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Northland Auckland Wellington Canterbury
Home COVID-19 Alert System Regional advice Canterbury --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has confirmed 2 workers at the Sudima managed isolation facility in Christchurch have tested positive for COVID-19. Latest details on the case Contact tracing locations of interest (external link) If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case in Christchurch, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick COVID-19 symptoms Testing locations in Canterbury (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest around the same time, you may be a casual contact. What you should do if you visited a location of interest depends on the location. Locations of interest, and what you need to do if you visited them (external link) Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet Please wear a face covering on public transport, including flights. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Wear a face covering These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has confirmed 2 workers at the Sudima managed isolation facility in Christchurch have tested positive for COVID-19. Latest details on the case Contact tracing locations of interest (external link) If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case in Christchurch, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick COVID-19 symptoms Testing locations in Canterbury (external link) --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest around the same time, you may be a casual contact. What you should do if you visited a location of interest depends on the location. Locations of interest, and what you need to do if you visited them (external link) --- Section Separator --- Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- Please wear a face covering on public transport, including flights. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- Northland Auckland Wellington Canterbury
Home COVID-19 Alert System Regional advice Northland --- Section Separator --- On 24 January, the Ministry of Health reported that a positive case of COVID-19 had been detected in Northland. The positive COVID-19 case recently completed their stay in Auckland managed isolation facility, The Pullman Hotel. Before they tested positive, the case visited some locations in Northland and Auckland regions. Find out what you need to do if you visited these locations around the same time. If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 Locations of interest for the Northland case and the two Auckland cases are available on the Ministry of Health website. Anyone who visited one of the listed locations during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a COVID-19 ‘casual contact’. Find out more about the locations of interest (external link) Learn more about contract tracing (external link) While the risk is most often very low, if you visited one of the listed locations at the times stated, you need to do the following: Stay at home. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to get a test. Stay at home until you receive a negative test result. If you receive a negative test, keep watching your symptoms for the next 14 days. If you develop any COVID-19 symptoms, get another test. Wash your hands regularly with soap and water, or with hand sanitiser. There is very high demand for tests from people who have not been to locations of interest, are not symptomatic and who are not the priority for testing. If you were not at a location of interest at the stated times and you have no symptoms, you do not need to be tested. If you have symptoms but you did not visit a location of interest, stay home and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Learn more about how to get tested for COVID-19 If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Northland health officials are working to provide additional testing in the area. Find a community testing location in Northland (external link) If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and get advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. Employers have an important role to support employees and customers to follow public health guidelines. Support New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19 by ensuring that: you display your QR code your employees can stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work. If you operate a public-facing business in central Auckland, encourage your staff to wear masks or face coverings. How to do business safely at Alert Level 1 Encourage your employees to stay home if they’re sick and get a test. If a staff member has COVID-like symptoms, they should get tested and stay home until they get a negative result. You can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme to help you pay employees who are told by a health official that they need to self-isolate and who can’t work from home. A health official can be: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate (e.g. a DHB Public Health Unit) a medical practitioner, for example, a doctor (GP) a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process their employer (for healthcare, disability or aged-care workers) following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. Learn more about financial support for businesses Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat COVID-19. Only share information from official sources. You can always find accurate and timely information on the Unite Against COVID-19 website www.covid19.govt.nz and the Ministry of Health website www.health.govt.nz (external link) Our social media channels are also updated frequently – follow Unite Against COVID-19 on Facebook www.facebook.com/UniteAgainstCOVID19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- On 24 January, the Ministry of Health reported that a positive case of COVID-19 had been detected in Northland. The positive COVID-19 case recently completed their stay in Auckland managed isolation facility, The Pullman Hotel. Before they tested positive, the case visited some locations in Northland and Auckland regions. Find out what you need to do if you visited these locations around the same time. If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest for the Northland case and the two Auckland cases are available on the Ministry of Health website. Anyone who visited one of the listed locations during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a COVID-19 ‘casual contact’. Find out more about the locations of interest (external link) Learn more about contract tracing (external link) --- Section Separator --- While the risk is most often very low, if you visited one of the listed locations at the times stated, you need to do the following: Stay at home. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to get a test. Stay at home until you receive a negative test result. If you receive a negative test, keep watching your symptoms for the next 14 days. If you develop any COVID-19 symptoms, get another test. Wash your hands regularly with soap and water, or with hand sanitiser. There is very high demand for tests from people who have not been to locations of interest, are not symptomatic and who are not the priority for testing. If you were not at a location of interest at the stated times and you have no symptoms, you do not need to be tested. If you have symptoms but you did not visit a location of interest, stay home and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Learn more about how to get tested for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Northland health officials are working to provide additional testing in the area. Find a community testing location in Northland (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and get advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick --- Section Separator --- Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- Employers have an important role to support employees and customers to follow public health guidelines. Support New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19 by ensuring that: you display your QR code your employees can stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work. If you operate a public-facing business in central Auckland, encourage your staff to wear masks or face coverings. How to do business safely at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Encourage your employees to stay home if they’re sick and get a test. If a staff member has COVID-like symptoms, they should get tested and stay home until they get a negative result. You can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme to help you pay employees who are told by a health official that they need to self-isolate and who can’t work from home. A health official can be: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate (e.g. a DHB Public Health Unit) a medical practitioner, for example, a doctor (GP) a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process their employer (for healthcare, disability or aged-care workers) following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. Learn more about financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat COVID-19. Only share information from official sources. You can always find accurate and timely information on the Unite Against COVID-19 website www.covid19.govt.nz and the Ministry of Health website www.health.govt.nz (external link) Our social media channels are also updated frequently – follow Unite Against COVID-19 on Facebook www.facebook.com/UniteAgainstCOVID19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Northland Auckland Wellington Canterbury
Home COVID-19 Alert System Regional advice Wellington --- Section Separator --- On 12 November, the Ministry of Health confirmed a new case of COVID-19 in Wellington. They are now in a quarantine facility in Wellington. Details on the Wellington cases Contact tracing locations of interest (external link) If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case in Wellington, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick COVID-19 symptoms Testing locations in Wellington (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest around the same time, you may be a casual contact. What you should do if you visited a location of interest depends on the location. Locations of interest, and what you need to do if you visited them (external link) Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet Please wear a face covering on public transport, including flights. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Wear a face covering These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- On 12 November, the Ministry of Health confirmed a new case of COVID-19 in Wellington. They are now in a quarantine facility in Wellington. Details on the Wellington cases Contact tracing locations of interest (external link) If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case in Wellington, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick COVID-19 symptoms Testing locations in Wellington (external link) --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest around the same time, you may be a casual contact. What you should do if you visited a location of interest depends on the location. Locations of interest, and what you need to do if you visited them (external link) --- Section Separator --- Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- Please wear a face covering on public transport, including flights. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- Northland Auckland Wellington Canterbury
Help people keep track of where they’ve been. Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Information for businesses on how to operate safely at Alert Level 1. How to operate safely and what you need to do at Alert Level 2. How to operate safely and what you need to do at Alert Level 3. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. Help is available to connect employers with people looking for work. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Help people keep track of where they’ve been. Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Information for businesses on how to operate safely at Alert Level 1. How to operate safely and what you need to do at Alert Level 2. How to operate safely and what you need to do at Alert Level 3. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. Help is available to connect employers with people looking for work. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19.
Home Business, work and money Business Toolkit --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 2) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 115 KB] You must wear a face covering [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 85 KB] E whakatenatenahia ana te mau uwhi mata | Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Pae Mataara 1 | Alert Level 1) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 87 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 2) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 115 KB] You must wear a face covering [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 85 KB] E whakatenatenahia ana te mau uwhi mata | Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Pae Mataara 1 | Alert Level 1) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 87 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Business Employment Training and apprenticeships Financial support Business Toolkit
Home Business, work and money Business Business helpline and resources --- Section Separator --- A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to government business support advice on what Alert Levels mean for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for the North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for the South Island. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: employment advice and tools to set up and run, or manage closure of your business information for businesses to build capabilities of your workforce information on financial help available to businesses affected by COVID-19. For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: RBP Growth Advisors in your region who can help you find the right support free webinars tailored to specific business needs business mentoring support via Business Mentors New Zealand. NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Register for tourism advisory support services (external link) Latest information on the tourism recovery programme (external link) Sign up for Tourism New Zealand’s newsletter (external link) --- Section Separator --- A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to government business support advice on what Alert Levels mean for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for the North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for the South Island. --- Section Separator --- Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) --- Section Separator --- Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: employment advice and tools to set up and run, or manage closure of your business information for businesses to build capabilities of your workforce information on financial help available to businesses affected by COVID-19. For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: RBP Growth Advisors in your region who can help you find the right support free webinars tailored to specific business needs business mentoring support via Business Mentors New Zealand. NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Register for tourism advisory support services (external link) Latest information on the tourism recovery programme (external link) Sign up for Tourism New Zealand’s newsletter (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Contact tracing at your workplace --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. All people on-site should sign in using either the QR code or an alternative contact tracing system. This includes employees, customers and other visitors. Make sure it’s done every day, including weekends and after hours. People who sign in with the NZ COVID Tracer app don’t need to use an alternative system. All workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This applies at all Alert Levels. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 2 and higher, you legally must have an alternative system for people who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. You may be contacted if your business is a potential contact. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need to record people who work on the premises. You do not need an alternative system at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. There are different systems and processes you can use to keep a record, like: an electronic system, like a tablet sign-in app, work time-sheets or an existing booking system a simple pen and paper register using individual slips and a ballot box for storage an employee records visitors' details. We recommend that records include the person’s name, phone number, and the date and time they enter. Whatever you use, it’s important that everyone’s personal details are collected, kept and used in a way that protects their privacy. Previous visitors’ records should not be visible to other visitors. Unsecured personal information exposes people to unwelcome contact, fraud or even identity theft. It’s also a breach of the Privacy Act. Keep these records for at least 30 days. You should only collect information if it’s necessary for contact tracing. The purpose of the collection is to help the Ministry of Health to contact a person in the event of a suspected or confirmed case of COVID-19. It’s unnecessary to collect other personal information like identity verification documents or number plates. You should only ask for name, phone number and the date and time of visit. When collecting this information, tell people that it’s being collected to support contact tracing. It’s your responsibility to store any private information securely, and it can only be used for COVID-19 contact tracing. For example, you should not automatically add people’s emails to your contact database without their consent. We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. For example: This information is being collected to assist in the management of COVID-19. It will be given to the Ministry of Health and/or the District Health Board on request if it is required for contact tracing purposes. We will not use it for any other purpose, and will destroy it after 30 days. It will be kept here at [name of the establishment]. You have a right to access and correct any information we hold about you. You can use these templates as your alternative system. Print whichever template suits your workplace best — you can use both if you wish. Contact tracing register — for staff to record visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] A page of individual ballot entries that visitors can fill out and put in a ballot box. You’ll need to cut out each entry for visitors to write on, and have your own ballot box to put them in. Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] Information about how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases: How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. --- Section Separator --- All people on-site should sign in using either the QR code or an alternative contact tracing system. This includes employees, customers and other visitors. Make sure it’s done every day, including weekends and after hours. People who sign in with the NZ COVID Tracer app don’t need to use an alternative system. --- Section Separator --- All workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This applies at all Alert Levels. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 and higher, you legally must have an alternative system for people who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. You may be contacted if your business is a potential contact. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need to record people who work on the premises. You do not need an alternative system at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. There are different systems and processes you can use to keep a record, like: an electronic system, like a tablet sign-in app, work time-sheets or an existing booking system a simple pen and paper register using individual slips and a ballot box for storage an employee records visitors' details. We recommend that records include the person’s name, phone number, and the date and time they enter. Whatever you use, it’s important that everyone’s personal details are collected, kept and used in a way that protects their privacy. Previous visitors’ records should not be visible to other visitors. Unsecured personal information exposes people to unwelcome contact, fraud or even identity theft. It’s also a breach of the Privacy Act. Keep these records for at least 30 days. You should only collect information if it’s necessary for contact tracing. The purpose of the collection is to help the Ministry of Health to contact a person in the event of a suspected or confirmed case of COVID-19. It’s unnecessary to collect other personal information like identity verification documents or number plates. You should only ask for name, phone number and the date and time of visit. When collecting this information, tell people that it’s being collected to support contact tracing. It’s your responsibility to store any private information securely, and it can only be used for COVID-19 contact tracing. For example, you should not automatically add people’s emails to your contact database without their consent. We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. For example: --- Section Separator --- This information is being collected to assist in the management of COVID-19. It will be given to the Ministry of Health and/or the District Health Board on request if it is required for contact tracing purposes. We will not use it for any other purpose, and will destroy it after 30 days. It will be kept here at [name of the establishment]. You have a right to access and correct any information we hold about you. --- Section Separator --- You can use these templates as your alternative system. Print whichever template suits your workplace best — you can use both if you wish. Contact tracing register — for staff to record visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] A page of individual ballot entries that visitors can fill out and put in a ballot box. You’ll need to cut out each entry for visitors to write on, and have your own ballot box to put them in. Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases: How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Doing business at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Employers have an important role to support employees and customers to follow public health guidelines. Support New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19 by ensuring that: you display your QR code your employees can stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work. Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must still display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code at Alert Level 1. Help your customers get back into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we'll be. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Contact tracing at your workplace If your employees are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms it is important they stay home and get health advice. Ask them to stay home and encourage them to call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 their doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or their iwi health provider. If they do get a test, they should self-isolate until they get a negative result. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you’re eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) You should not knowingly allow your staff to come to work if they have COVID-19 or are required to self-isolate under public health guidelines. If you do, you are likely to be in breach of your duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. Set up flexible work arrangements so employees can work from home if they need to. If they cannot work from home, your business may be eligible for financial support through the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Keep up good hygiene practices by encouraging your employees to: wash their hands using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and dry thoroughly cough and sneeze into their elbow keep surfaces clean. How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Provide handwashing facilities so everyone can regularly wash and dry their hands. Provide hand sanitisers where handwashing facilities are not easily available, for example at entrances to your workplace. Ensure your workplace is cleaned frequently, especially counters, tables, desks, EFTPOS terminals, door handles and other high-touch surfaces. Where possible, avoid sharing tools and personal objects, for example pens or phones. If you need to share items, try and clean or sanitise them between uses, for example with disinfectant wipes. Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. If your workplace can support physical distancing, we encourage you to do so. This could include: rearranging your workplace to support distance between people allowing space between people as they enter or leave your workplace split shifts staggered meal breaks flexible work arrangements, for example being able to work from home. You should discuss any changes with your employees first. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Employers have an important role to support employees and customers to follow public health guidelines. Support New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19 by ensuring that: you display your QR code your employees can stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work. --- Section Separator --- Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must still display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code at Alert Level 1. Help your customers get back into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we'll be. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Contact tracing at your workplace --- Section Separator --- If your employees are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms it is important they stay home and get health advice. Ask them to stay home and encourage them to call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 their doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or their iwi health provider. If they do get a test, they should self-isolate until they get a negative result. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you’re eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) You should not knowingly allow your staff to come to work if they have COVID-19 or are required to self-isolate under public health guidelines. If you do, you are likely to be in breach of your duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. --- Section Separator --- Set up flexible work arrangements so employees can work from home if they need to. If they cannot work from home, your business may be eligible for financial support through the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keep up good hygiene practices by encouraging your employees to: wash their hands using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and dry thoroughly cough and sneeze into their elbow keep surfaces clean. How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Provide handwashing facilities so everyone can regularly wash and dry their hands. Provide hand sanitisers where handwashing facilities are not easily available, for example at entrances to your workplace. Ensure your workplace is cleaned frequently, especially counters, tables, desks, EFTPOS terminals, door handles and other high-touch surfaces. Where possible, avoid sharing tools and personal objects, for example pens or phones. If you need to share items, try and clean or sanitise them between uses, for example with disinfectant wipes. --- Section Separator --- Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. --- Section Separator --- There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. If your workplace can support physical distancing, we encourage you to do so. This could include: rearranging your workplace to support distance between people allowing space between people as they enter or leave your workplace split shifts staggered meal breaks flexible work arrangements, for example being able to work from home. You should discuss any changes with your employees first. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Doing business at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold or flu-like symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Keep groups of customers at least 1 metre apart, or 2 metres for retail businesses. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Businesses and workplaces legally must operate safely. This means: complying with general Alert Level 2 settings displaying an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster and having alternative contact tracing systems. Supermarkets, petrol stations and transport stations only need alternative systems to record workers. maintaining hygiene measures, including physical distancing, handwashing and regularly cleaning surfaces, and fulfilling all other health and safety obligations. Business premises can open for staff and customers provided they meet public health requirements. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example their home. Close-contact services can operate if they meet public health measures including robust record keeping, good hygiene practices and minimise contact to the extent possible. If a workplace cannot meet these measures it cannot open its physical premises. All businesses are encouraged to use alternative ways of working if possible. If workers have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend they stay home. At Alert Level 2, businesses can have customers on their premises. Retail businesses, including malls, markets and takeaway shops legally must: keep customers 2 metres apart display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. There is no maximum number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries museums. All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars legally must: have no more than 100 people in a defined space have customers seated keep groups of attendees separated 1 metre apart have a single server per group, where practical display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code have an alternate contact tracing system for customers and workers. While we recommend each table having a single server, each server can cover multiple tables. People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: personal keep cups in-house reusable coffee cup schemes used by coffee shops. Advice for eating out and getting takeaways safely Advice for going out to a bar or night club A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place like: keeping contact tracing registers keeping customers 1 metre apart, including while they’re waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses, workplaces and public transport operators legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold or flu-like symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Keep groups of customers at least 1 metre apart, or 2 metres for retail businesses. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces legally must operate safely. This means: complying with general Alert Level 2 settings displaying an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster and having alternative contact tracing systems. Supermarkets, petrol stations and transport stations only need alternative systems to record workers. maintaining hygiene measures, including physical distancing, handwashing and regularly cleaning surfaces, and fulfilling all other health and safety obligations. Business premises can open for staff and customers provided they meet public health requirements. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example their home. Close-contact services can operate if they meet public health measures including robust record keeping, good hygiene practices and minimise contact to the extent possible. If a workplace cannot meet these measures it cannot open its physical premises. All businesses are encouraged to use alternative ways of working if possible. If workers have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend they stay home. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, businesses can have customers on their premises. Retail businesses, including malls, markets and takeaway shops legally must: keep customers 2 metres apart display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. There is no maximum number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries museums. All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars legally must: have no more than 100 people in a defined space have customers seated keep groups of attendees separated 1 metre apart have a single server per group, where practical display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code have an alternate contact tracing system for customers and workers. While we recommend each table having a single server, each server can cover multiple tables. People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: personal keep cups in-house reusable coffee cup schemes used by coffee shops. Advice for eating out and getting takeaways safely Advice for going out to a bar or night club A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place like: keeping contact tracing registers keeping customers 1 metre apart, including while they’re waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers. --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses, workplaces and public transport operators legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster --- Section Separator --- Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Doing business at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- If your business requires close physical contact it cannot operate. We recommend staff work from home if they can. Businesses need to display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend you make sure that people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you’re a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. Physical distancing, handwashing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they’re sick. Staff legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. We recommend other measures, such as PPE including face coverings, be used where appropriate. Different advice applies to essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. Under Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff work from home if they can. We recommend businesses self-assess their ability to meet these restrictions and operate safely, just as they would normally to meet their duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. Government agencies will not make these decisions for businesses. More information on operating a business at Alert Level 3 (external link) We recommend your business be contactless. Customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. We recommend delivery or pick-up should also be contactless. We recommend customers should not come onto your premises unless you’re a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, or pharmacy or permitted health service. We recommend your business should not operate if it requires close physical contact. There are exceptions for some essential services, or in an emergency or critical situation. For retailers, manufacturers and the service industries, if you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you do not need it now. Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations can operate under Alert Level 3. Any business providing necessities should minimise, or eliminate if possible, physical interactions among staff and with and between customers ensure appropriate health, hygiene and safety measures are in place. For example, dairies and petrol stations can remain open at all Alert Levels, if they can operate safely. At Alert Level 3, prepared food and drink can be bought and sold, but we recommend not allowing customers consuming these onsite. Independent butchers, bakeries and greengrocers can operate if they deliver or offer pre-arranged collection of goods bought online or by phone. Customers cannot physically browse for goods. Retail stores and hospitality businesses such as bars and cafes may operate, but we recommend customers not enter the premises. Delivery, or drive-through or contactless pick up by customers is allowed. Customers can pay in cash if there is no alternative, but try to handle the cash using self-checkout kiosks or cleaning hands well after handling. We recommend customers not consume food or drink on your premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: personal keep cups in-house reusable coffee cup schemes used by coffee shops. During Alert Level 3, most work can be carried out in the building and construction sector. All goods can be delivered, including food. We recommend the delivery be contactless. Alcohol can be delivered if the business has an off-licence. You can provide certain services in home, provided physical distancing and other public health guidance is observed. However, we recommend not having house cleaning. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses, workplaces and public transport operators legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your business requires close physical contact it cannot operate. We recommend staff work from home if they can. Businesses need to display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend you make sure that people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you’re a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. Physical distancing, handwashing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they’re sick. Staff legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. We recommend other measures, such as PPE including face coverings, be used where appropriate. Different advice applies to essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. --- Section Separator --- Under Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff work from home if they can. We recommend businesses self-assess their ability to meet these restrictions and operate safely, just as they would normally to meet their duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. Government agencies will not make these decisions for businesses. More information on operating a business at Alert Level 3 (external link) We recommend your business be contactless. Customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. We recommend delivery or pick-up should also be contactless. We recommend customers should not come onto your premises unless you’re a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, or pharmacy or permitted health service. We recommend your business should not operate if it requires close physical contact. There are exceptions for some essential services, or in an emergency or critical situation. For retailers, manufacturers and the service industries, if you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you do not need it now. Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations can operate under Alert Level 3. Any business providing necessities should minimise, or eliminate if possible, physical interactions among staff and with and between customers ensure appropriate health, hygiene and safety measures are in place. For example, dairies and petrol stations can remain open at all Alert Levels, if they can operate safely. At Alert Level 3, prepared food and drink can be bought and sold, but we recommend not allowing customers consuming these onsite. Independent butchers, bakeries and greengrocers can operate if they deliver or offer pre-arranged collection of goods bought online or by phone. Customers cannot physically browse for goods. Retail stores and hospitality businesses such as bars and cafes may operate, but we recommend customers not enter the premises. Delivery, or drive-through or contactless pick up by customers is allowed. Customers can pay in cash if there is no alternative, but try to handle the cash using self-checkout kiosks or cleaning hands well after handling. We recommend customers not consume food or drink on your premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: personal keep cups in-house reusable coffee cup schemes used by coffee shops. During Alert Level 3, most work can be carried out in the building and construction sector. All goods can be delivered, including food. We recommend the delivery be contactless. Alcohol can be delivered if the business has an off-licence. You can provide certain services in home, provided physical distancing and other public health guidance is observed. However, we recommend not having house cleaning. --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses, workplaces and public transport operators legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster --- Section Separator --- Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster. You should also encourage everyone who enters your premise to scan the QR code with the NZ COVID Tracer app. There are 3 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your locations. The form will ask you for your NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code: you do not need these if you're creating a QR code for personal reasons. You'll need: a valid New Zealand driver licence address details for each of your locations your email address an email address and contact phone number for each of your locations. Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of locations or do not have a New Zealand driver licence, use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. Use this template if you do not have a New Zealand driver licence or you have a large number of locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: the name of your business or organisation and its New Zealand Business Number (NZBN), if you have it address information for each of your locations email address for each location — for the person who will print the poster. Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) If you have previously used Business Connect to create your QR code posters or are in the process of doing this, you can still use it to reprint or add new locations for an existing business. Log in to Business Connect through RealMe (external link) All businesses and workplaces must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This legal requirement applies at Alert Level 1 and higher. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. Each location legally must display their poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they've been. This includes buses, trains, aircraft, ferries and ride-share vehicles. QR codes are not mandatory for public transport services that have ticketing processes that collect contact information for every passenger. Depending on the operator, this could airlines and inter-city buses. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. While displaying a QR code is not mandatory in these situations, we still encourage community organisations to display a QR code. This includes: voluntary or not-for-profit sporting, recreational, social, or cultural activities faith-based gatherings community club activities. Clubs that operate under section 21 of the Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012 must still display a QR code. You can also print off QR codes for private events such as social gatherings at your home. This isn’t mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. You need to display your QR code poster at all Alert Levels. Display the poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You can also place some posters inside, especially where people walk past without creating an obstacle. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. We recommend you: print in A4, colour if possible place the poster about 130cm off the ground make it easy for people to reach consider those that may be less able to reach over or around objects. Do not: crop the poster or code place the poster on sliding or revolving doors place in narrow, or hard-to-see areas place in an area with high glare place high up or in hard-to-reach areas. If you need help generating your QR code posters or have questions about NZ COVID Tracer: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz How to download NZ COVID Tracer app To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster. You should also encourage everyone who enters your premise to scan the QR code with the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your locations. The form will ask you for your NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code: you do not need these if you're creating a QR code for personal reasons. You'll need: a valid New Zealand driver licence address details for each of your locations your email address an email address and contact phone number for each of your locations. Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of locations or do not have a New Zealand driver licence, use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. Use this template if you do not have a New Zealand driver licence or you have a large number of locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: the name of your business or organisation and its New Zealand Business Number (NZBN), if you have it address information for each of your locations email address for each location — for the person who will print the poster. Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) If you have previously used Business Connect to create your QR code posters or are in the process of doing this, you can still use it to reprint or add new locations for an existing business. Log in to Business Connect through RealMe (external link) --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This legal requirement applies at Alert Level 1 and higher. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. Each location legally must display their poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they've been. This includes buses, trains, aircraft, ferries and ride-share vehicles. QR codes are not mandatory for public transport services that have ticketing processes that collect contact information for every passenger. Depending on the operator, this could airlines and inter-city buses. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. While displaying a QR code is not mandatory in these situations, we still encourage community organisations to display a QR code. This includes: voluntary or not-for-profit sporting, recreational, social, or cultural activities faith-based gatherings community club activities. Clubs that operate under section 21 of the Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012 must still display a QR code. You can also print off QR codes for private events such as social gatherings at your home. This isn’t mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. --- Section Separator --- You need to display your QR code poster at all Alert Levels. Display the poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You can also place some posters inside, especially where people walk past without creating an obstacle. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. We recommend you: print in A4, colour if possible place the poster about 130cm off the ground make it easy for people to reach consider those that may be less able to reach over or around objects. Do not: crop the poster or code place the poster on sliding or revolving doors place in narrow, or hard-to-see areas place in an area with high glare place high up or in hard-to-reach areas. --- Section Separator --- If you need help generating your QR code posters or have questions about NZ COVID Tracer: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz How to download NZ COVID Tracer app --- Section Separator --- To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Help finding new employees --- Section Separator --- If you need help hiring new employees, Work and Income can help. You can advertise jobs for free and easily access work-ready people who are wanting to work. Whether you’re a small, medium or large business, or looking to recruit locally or nationally, Work and Income can connect you with candidates who have skills to suit all kinds of jobs. List your job vacancies for free or talk to them about tailoring a recruitment plan to meet the needs of your business. Advertise your job vacancies for free (external link) Information about Work and Income’s recruitment services (external link) Many initiatives are underway to connect employers in a range of in-demand industries with people looking for work. More information on in-demand industries The Mana in Mahi programme provides young people with on-the-job training so they get paid while working towards an industry qualification. Businesses can receive funding and support to recruit, train and retain employees. To take part in the Mana in Mahi programme, your business will need to: have a full-time or part-time position you want to fill offer at least the adult minimum wage for the first year commit to supporting a new employee on a pathway to a formal industry qualification. To apply, contact Work and Income on 0800 778 008 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) He Poutama Rangatahi supports rangatahi aged 15 to 24 to connect with employers and get into long-term employment. To be eligible, your business will need to do the following: Identify rangatahi who are most in need of individualised employment support, can assess and prioritise what support they need to get ready for employment opportunities and can draw rangatahi into active participation in a work-readiness programme. Provide intensive, individualised support for rangatahi, both when they are participating in the programme and once they are in employment. Understand the needs of local employers and what foundation skills are critical for the jobs they have available, so that work-readiness preparation is purposefully matched to this. Understand how to navigate and access the specialist services rangatahi often need to be able to sustain employment. Have a history of delivery. Have effective management and governance systems, demonstrate strong project management, awareness of and planning for risk management and an understanding of commercial realities. Build and maintain strong networks with local employers, so as to facilitate connections between rangatahi and local employers, and support them forming enduring employment relationships. Work collaboratively with others in the community to improve employment outcomes for rangatahi. Find out more about He Poutama Rangatahi on the Provincial Growth Fund website (external link) The Cadetships programme supports employers to develop, mentor, train and grow full-time permanent Māori staff to take on more senior roles within an organisation. Your business could receive up to $10,000 to help develop a cadet for at least 6 months in a permanent role. To apply, your business will need to meet 1 of these requirements: Be 1 of the targeted national sectors. These are construction and utilities, business services, transport and logistics, food processing, knowledge-intensive manufacturing, hospitality and tourism, or primary industries not including forestry. Have technological advancement, including adapting and enhancing existing technologies, and use of research and development to improve workplace efficiency and productivity. Operate in a niche/specialised growth market with opportunities for scalability. Have a track record of constructive engagement with iwi, whānau and Māori communities. Operate in a regionally important sector. Provide opportunities for progression for Māori staff through existing established company HR policies and procedures. Have sufficient resources and capability to provide structured mentoring, training, potential to access promotion opportunities, diverse workplace experiences and other tailored support for cadets. Find out more about the Cadetships programme on the Te Puni Kokiri website (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need help hiring new employees, Work and Income can help. You can advertise jobs for free and easily access work-ready people who are wanting to work. Whether you’re a small, medium or large business, or looking to recruit locally or nationally, Work and Income can connect you with candidates who have skills to suit all kinds of jobs. List your job vacancies for free or talk to them about tailoring a recruitment plan to meet the needs of your business. Advertise your job vacancies for free (external link) Information about Work and Income’s recruitment services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many initiatives are underway to connect employers in a range of in-demand industries with people looking for work. More information on in-demand industries --- Section Separator --- The Mana in Mahi programme provides young people with on-the-job training so they get paid while working towards an industry qualification. Businesses can receive funding and support to recruit, train and retain employees. To take part in the Mana in Mahi programme, your business will need to: have a full-time or part-time position you want to fill offer at least the adult minimum wage for the first year commit to supporting a new employee on a pathway to a formal industry qualification. To apply, contact Work and Income on 0800 778 008 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) --- Section Separator --- He Poutama Rangatahi supports rangatahi aged 15 to 24 to connect with employers and get into long-term employment. To be eligible, your business will need to do the following: Identify rangatahi who are most in need of individualised employment support, can assess and prioritise what support they need to get ready for employment opportunities and can draw rangatahi into active participation in a work-readiness programme. Provide intensive, individualised support for rangatahi, both when they are participating in the programme and once they are in employment. Understand the needs of local employers and what foundation skills are critical for the jobs they have available, so that work-readiness preparation is purposefully matched to this. Understand how to navigate and access the specialist services rangatahi often need to be able to sustain employment. Have a history of delivery. Have effective management and governance systems, demonstrate strong project management, awareness of and planning for risk management and an understanding of commercial realities. Build and maintain strong networks with local employers, so as to facilitate connections between rangatahi and local employers, and support them forming enduring employment relationships. Work collaboratively with others in the community to improve employment outcomes for rangatahi. Find out more about He Poutama Rangatahi on the Provincial Growth Fund website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Cadetships programme supports employers to develop, mentor, train and grow full-time permanent Māori staff to take on more senior roles within an organisation. Your business could receive up to $10,000 to help develop a cadet for at least 6 months in a permanent role. To apply, your business will need to meet 1 of these requirements: Be 1 of the targeted national sectors. These are construction and utilities, business services, transport and logistics, food processing, knowledge-intensive manufacturing, hospitality and tourism, or primary industries not including forestry. Have technological advancement, including adapting and enhancing existing technologies, and use of research and development to improve workplace efficiency and productivity. Operate in a niche/specialised growth market with opportunities for scalability. Have a track record of constructive engagement with iwi, whānau and Māori communities. Operate in a regionally important sector. Provide opportunities for progression for Māori staff through existing established company HR policies and procedures. Have sufficient resources and capability to provide structured mentoring, training, potential to access promotion opportunities, diverse workplace experiences and other tailored support for cadets. Find out more about the Cadetships programme on the Te Puni Kokiri website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Find out what financial support you could access. Temporary visas include a work visa, student visa or visitor visa. I am a New Zealand citizen or resident I am in New Zealand on a temporary visa
Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate if your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If your employees have been told by a health official to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed or a sole trader. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. You can re-apply after this time if your employees still qualify. If your employees work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and they have COVID-19 symptoms, you can tell them to self-isolate while they wait to get a test or they are waiting for their test results. They will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how to apply (external link) They must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process their employer — if they are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. Wage subsidies were available to support workers who were financially impacted by COVID-19. Three schemes were available: Wage Subsidy Scheme Wage Subsidy Extension Resurgence Wage Subsidy Your employer can no longer apply for any of the wage subsidies. Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) Your small or medium-sized business may be eligible for a Business Finance Guarantee Scheme loan. These loans can support operating cashflow and capital assets and projects related to, responding to or for recovering from the impacts of COVID-19. Participating lenders can provide to eligible businesses: new loans increased limits to existing loans revolving credit facilities. Participating banks and non-banks, for example building societies, can lend outside of their normal lending criteria. If you borrow from a bank, you could borrow up to $5 million for a term of up to 5 years. If you borrow from a non-bank, you could borrow up to $3 million for a term of up to 5 years. The scheme is supported by the Government, which takes up to 80% of the scheme loan’s default risk. No personal guarantee is required. Participating banks and non-banks make all lending decisions. You must still pay the loan back, with interest, as you would usually. Find out if your business is eligible, and how to apply (external link) Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) If commercial tenants and landlords of small-to-medium businesses have not been able to agree about rent arrangements during a lockdown period (Alert Levels 3 and 4), they can use the COVID-19 commercial lease dispute services to try to reach an agreement acceptable to both parties. The services are arbitration and mediation services to resolve commercial lease disputes due to COVID-19. Arbitration services will be subsidised up to $6,000 for each dispute. Mediation services will be fully funded, up to a value of $4,000 for each dispute. These services are available until 31 March 2021. Check if you’re eligible for these services, and apply through the Ministry of Justice (external link) Support will be available to employers of first-year and second-year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: $1,000 a month for eligible apprentices in the first 12 months of their training programme $500 a month in the second 12 months of their training programme. Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost initiative, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate if your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- If your employees have been told by a health official to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed or a sole trader. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. You can re-apply after this time if your employees still qualify. If your employees work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and they have COVID-19 symptoms, you can tell them to self-isolate while they wait to get a test or they are waiting for their test results. They will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how to apply (external link) They must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process their employer — if they are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- Wage subsidies were available to support workers who were financially impacted by COVID-19. Three schemes were available: Wage Subsidy Scheme Wage Subsidy Extension Resurgence Wage Subsidy Your employer can no longer apply for any of the wage subsidies. Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Your small or medium-sized business may be eligible for a Business Finance Guarantee Scheme loan. These loans can support operating cashflow and capital assets and projects related to, responding to or for recovering from the impacts of COVID-19. Participating lenders can provide to eligible businesses: new loans increased limits to existing loans revolving credit facilities. Participating banks and non-banks, for example building societies, can lend outside of their normal lending criteria. If you borrow from a bank, you could borrow up to $5 million for a term of up to 5 years. If you borrow from a non-bank, you could borrow up to $3 million for a term of up to 5 years. The scheme is supported by the Government, which takes up to 80% of the scheme loan’s default risk. No personal guarantee is required. Participating banks and non-banks make all lending decisions. You must still pay the loan back, with interest, as you would usually. Find out if your business is eligible, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) --- Section Separator --- Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) --- Section Separator --- If commercial tenants and landlords of small-to-medium businesses have not been able to agree about rent arrangements during a lockdown period (Alert Levels 3 and 4), they can use the COVID-19 commercial lease dispute services to try to reach an agreement acceptable to both parties. The services are arbitration and mediation services to resolve commercial lease disputes due to COVID-19. Arbitration services will be subsidised up to $6,000 for each dispute. Mediation services will be fully funded, up to a value of $4,000 for each dispute. These services are available until 31 March 2021. Check if you’re eligible for these services, and apply through the Ministry of Justice (external link) --- Section Separator --- Support will be available to employers of first-year and second-year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: $1,000 a month for eligible apprentices in the first 12 months of their training programme $500 a month in the second 12 months of their training programme. Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost initiative, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ Financial support for businesses Financial support for communities and clubs If you need help with accommodation
Bula vinaka, fakaalofa lahi atu, fakatalofa atu, kia orana, ko na mauri, malo e lelei, mālō nī, noa’ia, talofa lava, tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. The latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. Advice about gatherings, events, public facilities and other types of gatherings. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Advice for religious communities including providing last rites, funerals, and advice for Muslim communities. How you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. You can get takeaways at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. You can go to cafes, restaurants and bars at Alert Levels 1 and 2. How to stay safe when going out to bars and night clubs. Advice for renters and homeowners, and guidance about waste collection and animal welfare. How to shop safely, access goods and services, get essential supplies, and how to eat out and about safely. Advice on education, shared custody, online safety and visiting whānau in aged residential care. --- Section Separator --- Bula vinaka, fakaalofa lahi atu, fakatalofa atu, kia orana, ko na mauri, malo e lelei, mālō nī, noa’ia, talofa lava, tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. The latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. Advice about gatherings, events, public facilities and other types of gatherings. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Advice for religious communities including providing last rites, funerals, and advice for Muslim communities. How you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. You can get takeaways at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. You can go to cafes, restaurants and bars at Alert Levels 1 and 2. How to stay safe when going out to bars and night clubs. Advice for renters and homeowners, and guidance about waste collection and animal welfare. How to shop safely, access goods and services, get essential supplies, and how to eat out and about safely. Advice on education, shared custody, online safety and visiting whānau in aged residential care.
Home Everyday life Bars and night clubs --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, bars and night clubs can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Bars and night clubs legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Bars and night clubs can open at Alert Level 2, with 100 people per defined space. 1 metre physical distancing is required, except for friends and whānau. Tables will be 1 metre away from other groups. Bars and night clubs have been shown to be places where COVID-19 can spread easily, so it’s important to follow the requirements, even when you’ve had a few drinks. You should not go to a bar or night club if you: have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. If you go to a bar or night club, follow the 3 S’s: Stay seated at your table unless using the bathroom, paying or departing. This means no dancefloors or standing around tables. Your table will be set up at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Make sure you keep 1 metre physical distance throughout the night from other groups and people you don’t know. Each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Make all your orders through your server and do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. You can play pool and use gaming machines provided they are 1 metre apart from each other. You can not eat or drink while playing pool. When playing, make sure you keep 1 metre apart from other groups. We recommend you sign in to a bar or night club with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, bars and night clubs can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Bars and night clubs legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- Bars and night clubs can open at Alert Level 2, with 100 people per defined space. 1 metre physical distancing is required, except for friends and whānau. Tables will be 1 metre away from other groups. Bars and night clubs have been shown to be places where COVID-19 can spread easily, so it’s important to follow the requirements, even when you’ve had a few drinks. You should not go to a bar or night club if you: have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. If you go to a bar or night club, follow the 3 S’s: Stay seated at your table unless using the bathroom, paying or departing. This means no dancefloors or standing around tables. Your table will be set up at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Make sure you keep 1 metre physical distance throughout the night from other groups and people you don’t know. Each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Make all your orders through your server and do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. You can play pool and use gaming machines provided they are 1 metre apart from each other. You can not eat or drink while playing pool. When playing, make sure you keep 1 metre apart from other groups. We recommend you sign in to a bar or night club with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. --- Section Separator --- A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals & tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers and whānau
Home Everyday life Eating out and getting takeaways safely --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants and bars can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants and bars can open and have customers on their premises. They legally must meet requirements to keep their customers safe. Delivery, drive-through or contactless pick-up may still be available. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home. Keep physical distance from people you do not know. We encourage wearing a face covering. Follow the establishment's safety measures. Wash your hands when you get home. The 3 S's will be in place if you're dining in. Seated — customers legally must be seated. Separated — keep at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Single server — each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Advice for going out to a bar or night club You can order and collect food from the counter in cafes or fast food restaurants that do not hold an on-licence or club licence. If you’re dining in, once you have ordered or collected your food, you must return to your seat. You must stay seated unless you’re using the bathroom or paying for your meal. On-licensed and club-licensed premises must continue to adhere to the 3 S's at all times, with a requirement to use table service. Food businesses can open at Alert Level 3, but only for takeaway, delivery or drive through. If you are picking up food in person, make sure you do this as safely as possible. You won't be allowed to enter the store, and need to maintain a 2 metre distance from others. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. Do not go out to get takeaways if you're sick with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick food up or get it delivered. Order ahead — online or over the phone. We recommend food outlets not accept orders made at the store. Only arrive to pick up your food when it's ready, to avoid waiting around. Send only 1 person from your bubble. Pay online, or use a contactless payment method, like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you're using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have thoroughly washed and dried your hands. If the business allows you to use reusable containers like personal keep cups or has an in-house reusable coffee cup scheme, make sure to wipe the cup before and after you use it. Do not wait with people in a crowd. You need to maintain a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your bubble, even if you're waiting in a queue. Be respectful to the staff — they may be dealing with high volumes. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. Wash and dry your hands thoroughly before eating. Enjoy! --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants and bars can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants and bars can open and have customers on their premises. They legally must meet requirements to keep their customers safe. Delivery, drive-through or contactless pick-up may still be available. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home. Keep physical distance from people you do not know. We encourage wearing a face covering. Follow the establishment's safety measures. Wash your hands when you get home. The 3 S's will be in place if you're dining in. Seated — customers legally must be seated. Separated — keep at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Single server — each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Advice for going out to a bar or night club You can order and collect food from the counter in cafes or fast food restaurants that do not hold an on-licence or club licence. If you’re dining in, once you have ordered or collected your food, you must return to your seat. You must stay seated unless you’re using the bathroom or paying for your meal. On-licensed and club-licensed premises must continue to adhere to the 3 S's at all times, with a requirement to use table service. --- Section Separator --- Food businesses can open at Alert Level 3, but only for takeaway, delivery or drive through. If you are picking up food in person, make sure you do this as safely as possible. You won't be allowed to enter the store, and need to maintain a 2 metre distance from others. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. Do not go out to get takeaways if you're sick with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick food up or get it delivered. Order ahead — online or over the phone. We recommend food outlets not accept orders made at the store. Only arrive to pick up your food when it's ready, to avoid waiting around. Send only 1 person from your bubble. Pay online, or use a contactless payment method, like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you're using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have thoroughly washed and dried your hands. If the business allows you to use reusable containers like personal keep cups or has an in-house reusable coffee cup scheme, make sure to wipe the cup before and after you use it. Do not wait with people in a crowd. You need to maintain a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your bubble, even if you're waiting in a queue. Be respectful to the staff — they may be dealing with high volumes. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. Wash and dry your hands thoroughly before eating. Enjoy! --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals & tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers and whānau
Home Everyday life Gatherings and events --- Section Separator --- Do not go to any gatherings or attend public events if you: have COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a social gathering or event or enter a public facility at Alert Level 1. Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can also print off QR codes for private events like social gatherings at your home. This isn’t mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. Get your QR code poster Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Social gatherings can go ahead at Alert Level 2 with up to 100 people in a defined space. You can have guests over to your home, but the 100 person limit applies. This includes people who usually live in your house. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the 100 person limit. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga religious services community club and sport activities private functions like a birthday party or stag do. Funeral and tangihanga requirements Religious community advice Play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. The person organising the gathering legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. At a social gathering you do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. If you have hired a venue just for a gathering then the rules on gatherings apply. If you’re a business or service, then the rules for businesses and hospitality apply. For example, eating dinner with friends at a restaurant. Public facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. If you go to a public facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries, and museums. We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. How to do business safely at Alert Level 2 Event facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. If you go to an event facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. If you believe you have observed behaviour that's not appropriate, and you're certain the individuals concerned are not following Alert Level requirements, you can report it. Report a breach online Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Do not go to any gatherings or attend public events if you: have COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a social gathering or event or enter a public facility at Alert Level 1. Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can also print off QR codes for private events like social gatherings at your home. This isn’t mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. Get your QR code poster Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- Social gatherings can go ahead at Alert Level 2 with up to 100 people in a defined space. You can have guests over to your home, but the 100 person limit applies. This includes people who usually live in your house. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the 100 person limit. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga religious services community club and sport activities private functions like a birthday party or stag do. Funeral and tangihanga requirements Religious community advice Play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. The person organising the gathering legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. At a social gathering you do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. If you have hired a venue just for a gathering then the rules on gatherings apply. If you’re a business or service, then the rules for businesses and hospitality apply. For example, eating dinner with friends at a restaurant. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. If you go to a public facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries, and museums. We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. How to do business safely at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Event facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. If you go to an event facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. --- Section Separator --- A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). --- Section Separator --- In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. --- Section Separator --- If you believe you have observed behaviour that's not appropriate, and you're certain the individuals concerned are not following Alert Level requirements, you can report it. Report a breach online --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals & tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers and whānau
Home Everyday life Life at home If you need help with accommodation --- Section Separator --- If you need help to access or pay for accommodation during COVID-19, there are several ways to get support. It depends on your situation. If you’re leaving a managed isolation facility and have nowhere to stay, talk to the manager of your managed isolation facility. If you’re a public housing tenant of Kāinga Ora or a Community Housing provider, contact your tenancy manager. You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009: Monday to Friday, 7am to 6pm Saturday, 8am to 1pm. Housing information at Work and Income (external link) If you’re under 19 call your Youth Service provider if you have one. If you do not have a Youth Service provider call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . Say ‘youth client’ when you call. If you’re in urgent need of housing within the next 7 days and have nowhere else to stay, call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 : Monday to Friday, 7am to 6pm Saturday, 8am to 1pm. Housing information at Work and Income (external link) If you’re at risk from family violence and are in immediate danger call 111 . Press 55 to go through to the police. If you’re not in immediate danger but need help with family violence you can call: Crisisline on 0800 733 843 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week 2Shine on 0508 744 633 , 9am to 11pm, 7 days a week Shakti International on 0800 742 584 if English is your second language. They’re available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- If you need help to access or pay for accommodation during COVID-19, there are several ways to get support. It depends on your situation. --- Section Separator --- If you’re leaving a managed isolation facility and have nowhere to stay, talk to the manager of your managed isolation facility. If you’re a public housing tenant of Kāinga Ora or a Community Housing provider, contact your tenancy manager. You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009: Monday to Friday, 7am to 6pm Saturday, 8am to 1pm. Housing information at Work and Income (external link) If you’re under 19 call your Youth Service provider if you have one. If you do not have a Youth Service provider call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . Say ‘youth client’ when you call. If you’re in urgent need of housing within the next 7 days and have nowhere else to stay, call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 : Monday to Friday, 7am to 6pm Saturday, 8am to 1pm. Housing information at Work and Income (external link) If you’re at risk from family violence and are in immediate danger call 111 . Press 55 to go through to the police. If you’re not in immediate danger but need help with family violence you can call: Crisisline on 0800 733 843 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week 2Shine on 0508 744 633 , 9am to 11pm, 7 days a week Shakti International on 0800 742 584 if English is your second language. They’re available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- Waste collection Animal welfare Renters and landlords Homeowners If you need help with accommodation
Home Everyday life Life at home Renters and landlords --- Section Separator --- The freeze on rent increases began on 26 March 2020 and meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. More details about rent increases on the Tenancy Services website (external link) People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Ensure regular and robust cleaning, with particular emphasis on disinfecting surfaces in common areas, such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances, with notices asking people to use as they enter or exit the building. If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise people about this advice: Only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. Press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Make sure all deliveries are left at the front door of the apartment building for collection. Post notices reminding people that they have to follow the government guidelines, in particular, maintaining a distance of at least 2 metres from other people, and washing hands frequently. Ask owners renting out their apartments to ensure their tenants, including any commercial tenants, know all the body corporate’s rules. Find out if there are residents who are vulnerable, over 70 years old or self-isolating in your building, and ask if there are other residents who could volunteer to support these people. For example, by collecting prescriptions or groceries on their behalf. We recommend any goods be left at their apartment door and all physical contact avoided. More information for tenants and landlords is available on the Tenancy Services website (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. --- Section Separator --- The freeze on rent increases began on 26 March 2020 and meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. More details about rent increases on the Tenancy Services website (external link) --- Section Separator --- People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Ensure regular and robust cleaning, with particular emphasis on disinfecting surfaces in common areas, such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances, with notices asking people to use as they enter or exit the building. If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise people about this advice: Only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. Press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Make sure all deliveries are left at the front door of the apartment building for collection. Post notices reminding people that they have to follow the government guidelines, in particular, maintaining a distance of at least 2 metres from other people, and washing hands frequently. Ask owners renting out their apartments to ensure their tenants, including any commercial tenants, know all the body corporate’s rules. Find out if there are residents who are vulnerable, over 70 years old or self-isolating in your building, and ask if there are other residents who could volunteer to support these people. For example, by collecting prescriptions or groceries on their behalf. We recommend any goods be left at their apartment door and all physical contact avoided. More information for tenants and landlords is available on the Tenancy Services website (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Waste collection Animal welfare Renters and landlords Homeowners If you need help with accommodation
Home Everyday life Make summer unstoppable This summer will be our first under COVID-19 conditions. It’s important we look after ourselves and our whānau over the festive season and summer holidays. --- Section Separator --- Warning: video contains flashing images. Please look away if you have a history of photosensitive epilepsy or suffer from migraines. --- Section Separator --- As New Zealanders we cherish our annual summer holidays. We all want an uninterrupted summer — uninterrupted by the weather and uninterrupted by COVID-19. While we cannot control the weather, we can control COVID-19. Here are four simple things we can all do to keep each other safe and make our summer unstoppable. --- Section Separator --- Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Scanning QR codes wherever you go is especially important when on holiday because you might not remember all the places you visit. Keep your phone handy to make scanning in quick and easy, especially when shops are crowded over Christmas and New Year. Taking a few seconds to scan means we can quickly let you know when you have visited a place where you may have been exposed to the virus. You can then take steps to protect yourself and your whānau. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. How to keep track of where you’ve been --- Section Separator --- Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you’ve been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing is great for large gatherings and events, like music festivals, when you’re surrounded by people you do not know. Bluetooth tracing does not replace the need to scan NZ COVID Tracer QR codes. You still need to scan QR codes to keep track of where you’ve been. Bluetooth tracing is an added tool — it helps keep track of the people we’ve been near. When you turn on Bluetooth tracing, your privacy is always protected — it cannot share your location, your name or anything else about you. Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Do not travel or take part in activities if you’re unwell. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while on you’re on holiday, do not wait until you get home. Call Healthline or your doctor or Nurse Practitioner to see about getting a test. COVID-19 testing services will continue over the Christmas and New Year holiday period. If you’re away from home, you’ll still be able to access tests. By getting a test, you’re helping keep the community safe. Stay home if you’re sick COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Wash your hands --- Section Separator --- Scan QR codes Turn on Bluetooth tracing Stay home if you're sick Wash your hands Make raumati unstoppable Make raumati unstoppable — Stan Walker --- Section Separator --- Many of us will be travelling around New Zealand and going to big events this summer. Shops will be more crowded than usual, and we’ll be going to more social gatherings. Here are some things you can do over our first summer under COVID-19 conditions: Have your phone ready to make scanning QR codes quick and easy. You could pack a summer essentials bag if you’re travelling, with hand sanitiser, face coverings, cleaning products and a booklet for contact tracing. You never know what facilities will be available at the places you’re visiting. Keep some hand sanitiser in your pocket or bag. It’s a convenient way to keep your hands clean when you’re out and about. Shops and events can be very crowded at this time of year, but try and keep your distance from people you do not know. If you’re hosting a gathering for friends and whānau, create a QR code to help your guests keep track of where they’ve been. If you’re hosting a gathering, consider holding your event outdoors. The more space people have, the harder it is for COVID-19 to spread if it is in the community. --- Section Separator --- Get resources to help your business or event make summer unstoppable. The resources include posters, templates, social media tiles and digital banners. Unstoppable summer toolkit
Home Everyday life Pacific Peoples --- Section Separator --- From our hearts to yours, wishing you a merry Christmas. As we take pause and spend time with our loved ones, please keep in mind the four golden rules for staying safe this festive season. Fiji community Christmas message (external link) Cook Islands community Christmas message (external link) Tonga community Christmas message (external link) Samoa community Christmas message (external link) Tuvalu community Christmas message (external link) Tokelau community Christmas message (external link) Kiribati community Christmas message (external link) Niue community Christmas message (external link) View the 12 October video update in 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 31 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 16 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 12 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Following the resurgence of COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand and the impact it is having on our Pacific communities, it is essential we consider the information we are receiving. Together with our partners Bright Sunday 4pi, the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Police, SunPix, Tagata Pasifika and Pacific Media Network (PMN), the Ministry for Pacific Peoples (MPP) has put together a half hour special programme focusing on Sela Alo, the General Manager of PMN, and his journey of surviving COVID-19, as well as key messages from Pacific community members and leaders. Watch the half-hour programme (external link) We got your back Aotearoa is a social media campaign that is aimed at reaching our Pacific communities and features some of New Zealand's well-known Pacific people, including: Dame Valerie Adams DNZM Dave Letele (Brown Buttabean) Diamond Langi Faumuina To'aletai David Tua ONZM Patrick Tuipulotu Lesina Nakhid-Schuster. They share messages of encouragement to help protect our people and once again beat and eliminate COVID-19. Watch the video messages (external link) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu Information and advice is available in 10 Pacific languages to support you, your children and young people learning from home. Learning from home (external link) In the battle against COVID-19, Prepare Pacific helps get information out to Pacific communities in Pacific languages. Prepare Pacific is an initiative of Counties Manukau Health, Auckland District Health Board, Waitematā District Health Board, Northland District Health Board and all our essential services who are working around the clock to help our people. Prepare Pacific (external link) If you need a Whānau Ora Family Support Package contact one of our partners. Key contact: Ana Aitcheson Phone number: 0800 366 648 The Fono Facebook (external link) Key contact: Maliena Jones Phone number: 09 826 5427 or 021 845 535 The Village Community Services Trust Facebook (external link) Key contact: John Kiria Phone number: 021 023 77746 Pacific Business Trust is providing free practical business assistance for all Pacific organisations in New Zealand who have been impacted by COVID-19. Find out more about free business assistance (external link) Pasifika Futures are referring Pacific families who need to access a COVID-19 support package to their local Civil Defence or a supporting agency. Call your local provider to see if you are eligible for support (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) LeVa #CatchYourself (external link) Pasefika Proud (external link) Pasifika Futures (external link) Prepare Pacific (external link) Health Promotion Agency (external link) The Fono (external link) Immigration (external link) Learning from home (external link) Work and Income benefits (external link) Pacific Business Trust (external link) Workplace operations (external link) --- Section Separator --- From our hearts to yours, wishing you a merry Christmas. As we take pause and spend time with our loved ones, please keep in mind the four golden rules for staying safe this festive season. --- Section Separator --- Fiji community Christmas message (external link) Cook Islands community Christmas message (external link) Tonga community Christmas message (external link) Samoa community Christmas message (external link) Tuvalu community Christmas message (external link) Tokelau community Christmas message (external link) Kiribati community Christmas message (external link) Niue community Christmas message (external link) --- Section Separator --- View the 12 October video update in 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 31 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 16 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 12 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) --- Section Separator --- Following the resurgence of COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand and the impact it is having on our Pacific communities, it is essential we consider the information we are receiving. Together with our partners Bright Sunday 4pi, the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Police, SunPix, Tagata Pasifika and Pacific Media Network (PMN), the Ministry for Pacific Peoples (MPP) has put together a half hour special programme focusing on Sela Alo, the General Manager of PMN, and his journey of surviving COVID-19, as well as key messages from Pacific community members and leaders. Watch the half-hour programme (external link) We got your back Aotearoa is a social media campaign that is aimed at reaching our Pacific communities and features some of New Zealand's well-known Pacific people, including: Dame Valerie Adams DNZM Dave Letele (Brown Buttabean) Diamond Langi Faumuina To'aletai David Tua ONZM Patrick Tuipulotu Lesina Nakhid-Schuster. They share messages of encouragement to help protect our people and once again beat and eliminate COVID-19. Watch the video messages (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu --- Section Separator --- Information and advice is available in 10 Pacific languages to support you, your children and young people learning from home. Learning from home (external link) In the battle against COVID-19, Prepare Pacific helps get information out to Pacific communities in Pacific languages. Prepare Pacific is an initiative of Counties Manukau Health, Auckland District Health Board, Waitematā District Health Board, Northland District Health Board and all our essential services who are working around the clock to help our people. Prepare Pacific (external link) If you need a Whānau Ora Family Support Package contact one of our partners. Key contact: Ana Aitcheson Phone number: 0800 366 648 The Fono Facebook (external link) Key contact: Maliena Jones Phone number: 09 826 5427 or 021 845 535 The Village Community Services Trust Facebook (external link) Key contact: John Kiria Phone number: 021 023 77746 Pacific Business Trust is providing free practical business assistance for all Pacific organisations in New Zealand who have been impacted by COVID-19. Find out more about free business assistance (external link) Pasifika Futures are referring Pacific families who need to access a COVID-19 support package to their local Civil Defence or a supporting agency. Call your local provider to see if you are eligible for support (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) LeVa #CatchYourself (external link) Pasefika Proud (external link) Pasifika Futures (external link) Prepare Pacific (external link) Health Promotion Agency (external link) The Fono (external link) Immigration (external link) Learning from home (external link) Work and Income benefits (external link) Pacific Business Trust (external link) Workplace operations (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals & tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers and whānau
Home Everyday life Parents, caregivers and whānau Education --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, Early Learning Centres, schools and tertiary education facilities are open for all age groups. Following the announcement of a case of community transmission in Auckland, early learning services and schools remain open. Some education providers are operating under different conditions so we recommend you check in with your own provider. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, early learning centres, schools and tertiary education facilities are open for all age groups. If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it legally must close temporarily, if advised by the public health unit, to allow for contact tracing. Children or young people legally must stay home if they: are unwell have COVID-19 symptoms are self-isolating are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Distance learning will be available for any students not able to attend school. Children, young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at school. This is because the risk of infection within the school environment is low. Face coverings All early learning centres and schools are physically open including for years 11 to 13. Distance learning will be available for those who cannot attend school, for example where people are self-isolating. Early learning centres and schools are safe environments for children, young people and staff. Additional public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease and to support contact tracing. Tertiary education facilities are open. Tertiary education is a safe environment for students and staff to return to at Alert Level 2. Tertiary education facilities will implement public health requirements and physical distancing and will provide a safe environment where students can continue their learning. They will maintain distance learning capability for staff and students who need it. Workplace-based learning will follow the rules that apply to the relevant industry. Under Alert Level 3 it will be safe for early learning/education centres and schools to open for children up to and including Year 10, with appropriate public health measures in place. All young people in years 11 to 13 will continue to learn at home. Where possible, we recommend that students remain at home and continue distance learning. Where parents or caregivers need to, they can send their children to school. Schools will be a safe place for children to go to learn if their parents need to return to work, or the children cannot learn at a distance. Home-based early learning services can resume up to the maximum number of licensed children of 4, including the educators’ own children, provided they meet public health requirements. Play centres and playgroups will be closed. Personal protective equipment (PPE) like gloves and masks are not necessary for a school environment. We recommend that children, young people and staff who are at greater risk stay at home. We also recommend any child, young person or staff member who is sick remain at home. Some schools and early learning services may need extra time to get ready to open after we go to Alert Level 3. Schools will look different under Alert Level 3. There will be far fewer students on the grounds, and they will stay within their small groups. The small groups will help to maintain physical distancing. Some teachers will be teaching students at school, while others will support distance learning. For those small number of children attending school, the learning experience will be different to “normal” school. Home Learning TV | Papa Kāinga TV and Mauri Reo, Mauri Ora will support the learning of tamariki and rangatahi at Alert Level 3. Home Learning TV | Papa Kāinga TV will take over TVNZ DUKE's daytime schedule between 9am and 1pm on weekdays, with programmes and lessons for children aged 2 to 11 years. DUKE is available on: Freeview channel 13 Sky and Vodafone TV channel 23 online through the TVNZ website (external link) . (external link) Content will be available for catch up viewing on TVNZ OnDemand. Check the schedule and access lesson plans (external link) Mauri Reo Mauri Ora will air at Alert Level 3. You can watch from 9am to 3pm on weekdays on Te Reo Māori Channel: Sky and Vodafone TV channel 82 Freeview Channel 15. Content will be available for catch up viewing on Māori Television OnDemand (external link) Schedules and previous sessions (external link) Tertiary education will be provided online. Certain small groups can work together at tertiary institutions. Student accommodation will remain open for students who require it. For details please contact your education provider or go to the Ministry of Education website. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers / whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) Additional support is being provided for senior secondary students due to the continuing disruption from the resurgence of COVID-19. The following support and changes apply to students in Auckland in the first instance: Additional places will be available in programmes led by Te Aho o te Kura Pounamu (Te Kura) from Term 4. This will support students most at risk of not achieving their NCEA goals in 2020. In partnership with the Ministry of Education, Te Kura will have extra places in their summer school this year. This is for students who need up to 10 additional credits to attain an NCEA or University Entrance award. Students working towards an NCEA can gain: up to 6 extra Learning Recognition (LR) credits at Level 1 up to 4 extra LR credits at Levels 2 and 3. up to 6 extra Learning Recognition (LR) credits at Level 1 up to 4 extra LR credits at Levels 2 and 3. The credit requirements for certificate endorsements have been reduced by 2 credits. This means students will be awarded a certificate endorsement if they achieve 44 credits at Merit or Excellence level, instead of 46. The changes recognise that students in Auckland lost 13 days of classroom-based learning in August following the resurgence of COVID-19. These measures build on the changes to NCEA and University Entrance that were announced earlier this year. Announcement of changes to NCEA (external link) Announcement of changes to University Entrance (external link) NCEA exams have been delayed to provide students more time to prepare for end of year assessments. External NCEA examinations and New Zealand Scholarship examinations have moved from 6 November to 16 November, allowing another week for teaching, learning and internal assessment in Term 4. The submission date for subjects which require students to submit a portfolio, such as Design and Visual Communication, has moved from from 28 October to 12 November 2020, giving students more time to prepare. The requirement for NZQA verification of Level 1 and 2 Visual Arts portfolios has been waived, allowing students more time to complete their portfolios and teachers more time for marking. Further information from NZQA (external link) If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, Early Learning Centres, schools and tertiary education facilities are open for all age groups. --- Section Separator --- Following the announcement of a case of community transmission in Auckland, early learning services and schools remain open. Some education providers are operating under different conditions so we recommend you check in with your own provider. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, early learning centres, schools and tertiary education facilities are open for all age groups. If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it legally must close temporarily, if advised by the public health unit, to allow for contact tracing. Children or young people legally must stay home if they: are unwell have COVID-19 symptoms are self-isolating are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Distance learning will be available for any students not able to attend school. Children, young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at school. This is because the risk of infection within the school environment is low. Face coverings All early learning centres and schools are physically open including for years 11 to 13. Distance learning will be available for those who cannot attend school, for example where people are self-isolating. Early learning centres and schools are safe environments for children, young people and staff. Additional public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease and to support contact tracing. Tertiary education facilities are open. Tertiary education is a safe environment for students and staff to return to at Alert Level 2. Tertiary education facilities will implement public health requirements and physical distancing and will provide a safe environment where students can continue their learning. They will maintain distance learning capability for staff and students who need it. Workplace-based learning will follow the rules that apply to the relevant industry. --- Section Separator --- Under Alert Level 3 it will be safe for early learning/education centres and schools to open for children up to and including Year 10, with appropriate public health measures in place. All young people in years 11 to 13 will continue to learn at home. Where possible, we recommend that students remain at home and continue distance learning. Where parents or caregivers need to, they can send their children to school. Schools will be a safe place for children to go to learn if their parents need to return to work, or the children cannot learn at a distance. Home-based early learning services can resume up to the maximum number of licensed children of 4, including the educators’ own children, provided they meet public health requirements. Play centres and playgroups will be closed. Personal protective equipment (PPE) like gloves and masks are not necessary for a school environment. We recommend that children, young people and staff who are at greater risk stay at home. We also recommend any child, young person or staff member who is sick remain at home. Some schools and early learning services may need extra time to get ready to open after we go to Alert Level 3. Schools will look different under Alert Level 3. There will be far fewer students on the grounds, and they will stay within their small groups. The small groups will help to maintain physical distancing. Some teachers will be teaching students at school, while others will support distance learning. For those small number of children attending school, the learning experience will be different to “normal” school. Home Learning TV | Papa Kāinga TV and Mauri Reo, Mauri Ora will support the learning of tamariki and rangatahi at Alert Level 3. Home Learning TV | Papa Kāinga TV will take over TVNZ DUKE's daytime schedule between 9am and 1pm on weekdays, with programmes and lessons for children aged 2 to 11 years. DUKE is available on: Freeview channel 13 Sky and Vodafone TV channel 23 online through the TVNZ website (external link) . (external link) Content will be available for catch up viewing on TVNZ OnDemand. Check the schedule and access lesson plans (external link) Mauri Reo Mauri Ora will air at Alert Level 3. You can watch from 9am to 3pm on weekdays on Te Reo Māori Channel: Sky and Vodafone TV channel 82 Freeview Channel 15. Content will be available for catch up viewing on Māori Television OnDemand (external link) Schedules and previous sessions (external link) Tertiary education will be provided online. Certain small groups can work together at tertiary institutions. Student accommodation will remain open for students who require it. For details please contact your education provider or go to the Ministry of Education website. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers / whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) --- Section Separator --- Additional support is being provided for senior secondary students due to the continuing disruption from the resurgence of COVID-19. The following support and changes apply to students in Auckland in the first instance: Additional places will be available in programmes led by Te Aho o te Kura Pounamu (Te Kura) from Term 4. This will support students most at risk of not achieving their NCEA goals in 2020. In partnership with the Ministry of Education, Te Kura will have extra places in their summer school this year. This is for students who need up to 10 additional credits to attain an NCEA or University Entrance award. Students working towards an NCEA can gain: up to 6 extra Learning Recognition (LR) credits at Level 1 up to 4 extra LR credits at Levels 2 and 3. up to 6 extra Learning Recognition (LR) credits at Level 1 up to 4 extra LR credits at Levels 2 and 3. The credit requirements for certificate endorsements have been reduced by 2 credits. This means students will be awarded a certificate endorsement if they achieve 44 credits at Merit or Excellence level, instead of 46. The changes recognise that students in Auckland lost 13 days of classroom-based learning in August following the resurgence of COVID-19. These measures build on the changes to NCEA and University Entrance that were announced earlier this year. Announcement of changes to NCEA (external link) Announcement of changes to University Entrance (external link) NCEA exams have been delayed to provide students more time to prepare for end of year assessments. External NCEA examinations and New Zealand Scholarship examinations have moved from 6 November to 16 November, allowing another week for teaching, learning and internal assessment in Term 4. The submission date for subjects which require students to submit a portfolio, such as Design and Visual Communication, has moved from from 28 October to 12 November 2020, giving students more time to prepare. The requirement for NZQA verification of Level 1 and 2 Visual Arts portfolios has been waived, allowing students more time to complete their portfolios and teachers more time for marking. Further information from NZQA (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Education Shared custody and childcare Online safety Visiting an Aged Residential Care facility
Home Everyday life Parents, caregivers and whānau Online safety --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) This is a good time for parents and caregivers to learn about tools like filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) You may be watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz . It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse, and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Make a non-emergency report to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) --- Section Separator --- This is a good time for parents and caregivers to learn about tools like filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may be watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse, and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Make a non-emergency report to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Education Shared custody and childcare Online safety Visiting an Aged Residential Care facility
Home Everyday life Parents, caregivers and whānau Visiting an Aged Residential Care facility --- Section Separator --- During all COVID-19 Alert Levels, visits to ARC facilities will be restricted. It is important that facilities take extra precautions to ensure people in their care are safe. This is particularly important for those who are more at risk of infection and severe illness. At all Alert Levels, if you visit a facility: You may be screened for your health before you enter. Wash and dry your hands frequently, cough into your elbow, do not touch your face. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, add a manual entry to your digital diary or sign in manually. You cannot enter a facility if you: are a probable or confirmed case of COVID-19 are a close contact of a COVID-19 case have symptoms of COVID-19. During Alert Level 1, visits will be allowed. Providers may continue to take some extra precautions to reduce the risk to the residents and staff. Contact the provider to discuss your visit. Formal visiting hours may remain in place. Remember to follow the Alert Level 1 guidelines. This includes: washing and drying your hands coughing into your elbow not touching your face keeping a record of where you’ve been. During Alert Level 2, visits will be allowed. Providers will take precautions and manage visits in a controlled way. This will minimise the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to residents and staff. Visits may be limited to designated visitors. There may be a limit on the number of designated visitors at one time. Check with the provider before organising a visit. Lengths of visits and visiting areas will be determined by the provider. They will consider the resident’s health, preference, and the number of appointments the facility already has. Health screening and assessment of visitors will be completed before entering the facility. Visitors must follow infection prevention and control measures. This includes hand hygiene, physical distancing and appropriate use of PPE. --- Section Separator --- During all COVID-19 Alert Levels, visits to ARC facilities will be restricted. It is important that facilities take extra precautions to ensure people in their care are safe. This is particularly important for those who are more at risk of infection and severe illness. --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, if you visit a facility: You may be screened for your health before you enter. Wash and dry your hands frequently, cough into your elbow, do not touch your face. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, add a manual entry to your digital diary or sign in manually. You cannot enter a facility if you: are a probable or confirmed case of COVID-19 are a close contact of a COVID-19 case have symptoms of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- During Alert Level 1, visits will be allowed. Providers may continue to take some extra precautions to reduce the risk to the residents and staff. Contact the provider to discuss your visit. Formal visiting hours may remain in place. Remember to follow the Alert Level 1 guidelines. This includes: washing and drying your hands coughing into your elbow not touching your face keeping a record of where you’ve been. --- Section Separator --- During Alert Level 2, visits will be allowed. Providers will take precautions and manage visits in a controlled way. This will minimise the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to residents and staff. Visits may be limited to designated visitors. There may be a limit on the number of designated visitors at one time. Check with the provider before organising a visit. Lengths of visits and visiting areas will be determined by the provider. They will consider the resident’s health, preference, and the number of appointments the facility already has. Health screening and assessment of visitors will be completed before entering the facility. Visitors must follow infection prevention and control measures. This includes hand hygiene, physical distancing and appropriate use of PPE. --- Section Separator --- Education Shared custody and childcare Online safety Visiting an Aged Residential Care facility
Home Everyday life Religious communities --- Section Separator --- At different Alert Levels, gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and it will also impact a number of other religious practices. There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a religious event or ceremony at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at religious events and ceremonies to keep track of attendees. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Religious buildings can open at Alert Level 2. Up to 100 people can gather in each defined space for religious ceremonies, events and services. A defined space is an area that is partitioned off from other areas by permanent or temporary walls. Faith-based institutions and clubs can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each area. You will need to prevent mingling between groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. Read more about defined spaces at Alert Level 2 Gatherings legally must: have no more than 100 people in each defined space excluding staff, for example clergy keep attendees who do not know each other 1 metre apart record attendees to ensure contact tracing can be done if necessary — but you do not need to do this if each person at the gathering knows everyone. If the place of worship is a workplace, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. We recommend that religious and faith-based gatherings follow social gathering rules, unless they’re operating under a club licence to sell alcohol. Then we recommend following hospitality rules. We recommend not participating in any gatherings if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. We recommend following the general guidance for gatherings, including measures such as frequent cleaning, good hygiene, wearing face coverings and physical distancing. More information about gatherings and events at Alert Level 2. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they’re visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must adhere to the visiting policy of the health facility and follow the relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Halaal butchers may open, and you may enter the store. The shop legally must adhere to physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 2. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. A maximum of 100 people can attend the funeral. Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. More information on gatherings and events at Alert Level 3 Places of worship can use a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. You cannot enter the premises. We recommend either collecting your meat or getting it delivered to your home. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend funerals. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- At different Alert Levels, gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and it will also impact a number of other religious practices. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a religious event or ceremony at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at religious events and ceremonies to keep track of attendees. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- Religious buildings can open at Alert Level 2. Up to 100 people can gather in each defined space for religious ceremonies, events and services. A defined space is an area that is partitioned off from other areas by permanent or temporary walls. Faith-based institutions and clubs can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each area. You will need to prevent mingling between groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. Read more about defined spaces at Alert Level 2 Gatherings legally must: have no more than 100 people in each defined space excluding staff, for example clergy keep attendees who do not know each other 1 metre apart record attendees to ensure contact tracing can be done if necessary — but you do not need to do this if each person at the gathering knows everyone. If the place of worship is a workplace, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. We recommend that religious and faith-based gatherings follow social gathering rules, unless they’re operating under a club licence to sell alcohol. Then we recommend following hospitality rules. We recommend not participating in any gatherings if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. We recommend following the general guidance for gatherings, including measures such as frequent cleaning, good hygiene, wearing face coverings and physical distancing. More information about gatherings and events at Alert Level 2. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they’re visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must adhere to the visiting policy of the health facility and follow the relevant infection prevention and control procedures. --- Section Separator --- Halaal butchers may open, and you may enter the store. The shop legally must adhere to physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 2. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. A maximum of 100 people can attend the funeral. --- Section Separator --- Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. More information on gatherings and events at Alert Level 3 Places of worship can use a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. --- Section Separator --- Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. You cannot enter the premises. We recommend either collecting your meat or getting it delivered to your home. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend funerals. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals & tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers and whānau
Home Everyday life Support your community Buy local to support locals --- Section Separator --- Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: check out the shops in your area buy produce that has been locally grown browse local online sites keep an eye out for the New Zealand Made kiwi trademark. The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: check out the shops in your area buy produce that has been locally grown browse local online sites keep an eye out for the New Zealand Made kiwi trademark. The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes
Home Everyday life Support your community Community heroes Learn about all of the heroes supporting their communities to stay safe, healthy and informed about COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Annemarie is a former ICU nurse who responded to the call by the Nursing Council of New Zealand for ex-nurses to help with the COVID-19 pandemic response. The Lakes district health board (DHB) nursing team were given 12 hours’ notice to set up the first of 2 managed isolation facilities in Rotorua. She says there is a lot of misunderstanding in the community about what they do. While she is on the frontline of a ‘Viral World War’, they have the right equipment and processes to protect the public. Her Rotorua team has been working hard to educate the community and demystify their work in Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ). Annemarie will be spending her summer working with her 450 Rotorua nursing, Defence Force and security colleagues to continue to keep the community safe. --- Section Separator --- The Waikato district health board Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) Cultural Intervention Team welcomes and supports arrivals in MIQ in accordance with the manaakitanga (hospitality) of Waikato people. Their work supports every facet of Tikanga Māori, from welcoming returning guests, completing assessments, supporting those experiencing bereavement and trauma, and providing karakia and a safe space to korero. Activities offered include online Zumba fitness sessions, flax weaving, Mau Rakau (Māori martial arts) and te reo Māori classes. During the lockdown, the cultural team provided support to all ethnicities. Despite all the work they and the wider MIQ team does to protect New Zealand, its team leader, Ikimoke Tamaki-Takarei, says staff are often stigmatised in the community, despite the very strict health guidelines they work to. --- Section Separator --- Maysa is the host of Bel A’arabee, a weekly Free FM radio show and podcast. She saw a much-needed opportunity to get relevant COVID-19 information delivered quickly, and she worked hard to translate the content for New Zealand’s Arabic-speaking communities. Maysa translated the Prime Minister’s COVID-19 media conferences, recording them in Arabic for broadcasting and podcasting on Free FM by 5pm each day. When Free FM went into lockdown, she continued to produce her programme from home. Her fellow broadcasters at Free FM are proud of her commitment and achievement in making each day’s information delivered quickly to the Arabic speaking communities. www.freefm.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Sara is a Chinese language journalist and broadcaster. She worked at WTV, an Auckland-based Chinese language television station where she translated Unite against COVID-19 information for Chinese viewers. Sara’s broadcasts helped keep the mainly Mandarin-speaking communities in touch and up to date with Alert Level changes. Sara has a YouTube channel which she uses to entertain people and keep give them advice on all manner of subjects. She has even made one on the Make Summer Unstoppable theme. Sara's YouTube channel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust is a Christchurch-based non-profit volunteering organisation that provides community services to the community. During lockdown, the Trust contacted vulnerable people with a special focus on elderly individuals who lived alone. Trust volunteers carried out food deliveries and provided financial assistance by assisting with Ministry of Social Development (MSD) grants. Volunteers also supported vulnerable people and families emotionally and socially to make them feel safe and stronger. The Trust opened an op-shop to help supply affordable winter and summer clothing to those affected by the closure of workplaces and the loss of work contracts and hours. Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust Facebook page (external link) --- Section Separator --- Lepou is a broadcaster with Plains FM on the weekly Samoan language programme Samoa Feso’ota’i. During the lockdown last year, she was active in her community, translating and broadcasting important COVID-19 messaging on the weekly radio show and podcast. She also delivered food parcels, food vouchers, hygiene packs and face coverings to over 200 families and 10 churches in the Christchurch area. Many of the struggling families and individuals had contacted her through her radio show. Lepou intends to resume her broadcasting over the summer, translating Unite Against COVID-19 information and news for her community of listeners. Listen to Lemalu Lepou Suia Tu’ulua's radio show at Plains FM (external link) --- Section Separator --- The team of staff and volunteers at Asian Families Services (AFS) continues to provide counselling support and advice to diverse communities over the summer. During the lockdown, its services experienced a spike in demand on its Asian Helpline number, with many callers needing psychological, medical and informational support. Many clients are vulnerable, non-English speaking older people with long-term health conditions and/or mobility limitations who became completely isolated during the lockdown. AFS provides services in Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Japanese, Thai, Vietnamese and Hindi. During 2020, it worked with 2,834 clients, carried out 6,101 interventions and took 3,215 Helpline calls. Find out more about Asian Families Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- When Graham Bye arrived in New Zealand to join The Warehouse in January 2020, he never expected during his first few months that he would have to deal with the challenges of an unprecedented global pandemic. The Warehouse at Sylvia Park, which Graham manages, became a vital source of essential supplies requested by government agencies during the lockdown. Following the request from government, Graham and his team moved quickly to rearrange the shop, so it was fit for purpose to pack orders for requested products. Every day, they would receive an email with a list of required items which the team needed to locate within the store and package. Team members would grab shopping trolleys to collect the requested stock from the shelves and then box them up for delivery. Graham liaised with government agencies throughout Alert Levels 4 and 3 to maintain supply lines. He also ensured his team remained motivated, upbeat, connected and above all else, safe. --- Section Separator --- The CNSST Foundation (formerly known as the Chinese New Settlers Services Trust) provides services to Asian new settlers, including settlement orientation, educational and work programmes, and social housing. The Foundation’s Social Housing Team worked hard to protect a vulnerable group of people — elderly people, particularly the 51 residents who live in its social housing apartment. The team is continuing its work over the summer by providing information and services, including distributing personal protective equipment (PPE), to keep its elderly residents connected and safe. Find out more about The CNSST Foundation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Team TANI has been fully committed to responding to the increased community needs of Asian peoples in the Auckland region during the COVID-19 crisis. It did this by providing the most up-to-date information for accessing relevant public health, social support and mental well-being services. The team also initiated online wellbeing programs to support Asian communities during a challenging year and will continue that work in 2021. Find out more about The Asian Network Incorporated (external link) --- Section Separator --- Check back soon for more stories about New Zealand's community heroes.
Home Everyday life Support your community Community wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It’s natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Learn more about resilience from the Social Wellbeing Agency (external link) How to find help and resources to look after your mental wellbeing Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it’s important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) When we get to know our neighbours we’re more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It’s natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Learn more about resilience from the Social Wellbeing Agency (external link) How to find help and resources to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it’s important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) --- Section Separator --- When we get to know our neighbours we’re more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) --- Section Separator --- Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes
Home Everyday life Support your community See your own backyard --- Section Separator --- A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You’ll be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) --- Section Separator --- A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You’ll be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: fever diarrhoea headache muscle pain nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will advise whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting if you have any symptoms. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect shared surfaces. If you are told by health authorities to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are awaiting test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. People can catch the virus through their eyes, nose or mouth. Scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. People may get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that have been touched by an infected person, or if droplets have settled there. People could also get infected if droplets remain in the air for a few minutes, or longer. While it is unlikely people will get infected this way, the risk becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, at any time. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces regularly. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- Symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: fever diarrhoea headache muscle pain nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will advise whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting if you have any symptoms. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect shared surfaces. If you are told by health authorities to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are awaiting test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. People can catch the virus through their eyes, nose or mouth. Scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. People may get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that have been touched by an infected person, or if droplets have settled there. People could also get infected if droplets remain in the air for a few minutes, or longer. While it is unlikely people will get infected this way, the risk becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, at any time. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces regularly. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 Get tested for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms If you visited a location of interest in Northland or Auckland at a certain time, you are considered a 'casual contact'. Locations of interest in Northland and Auckland (external link) If you were at one of these locations during the relevant timeframe, take the following steps: Stay at home. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to get a test. Stay at home until you receive a negative test result. If you receive a negative test, keep watching your symptoms for the next 14 days. If you develop any COVID-19 symptoms, get another test. Wash your hands regularly with soap and water, or with hand sanitiser. There is very high demand for tests from people who have not been to locations of interest, are not symptomatic and who are not the priority for testing. If you were not at a location of interest at the stated times and you have no symptoms, you do not need to be tested. If you have symptoms but you did not visit a location of interest, stay home and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) Northland testing locations (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This applies whether you have symptoms of COVID-19 or not, and regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not be charged for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that your results can be sent to you. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it’s helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by Healthline or your doctor that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not be charged for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. When you are tested, you will be told how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will advise you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive If you need to be tested for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than 1 way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they’re testing. Detailed assessment and testing information from the Ministry of Health (external link) The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border (external link) Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) If you have been told by a health official to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. If you work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and you have COVID-19 symptoms, your employer can tell you to self-isolate while you wait to get a test or you are waiting for your test results. You will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how employers can apply (external link) You must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process your employer — if you are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- If you visited a location of interest in Northland or Auckland at a certain time, you are considered a 'casual contact'. Locations of interest in Northland and Auckland (external link) If you were at one of these locations during the relevant timeframe, take the following steps: Stay at home. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to get a test. Stay at home until you receive a negative test result. If you receive a negative test, keep watching your symptoms for the next 14 days. If you develop any COVID-19 symptoms, get another test. Wash your hands regularly with soap and water, or with hand sanitiser. There is very high demand for tests from people who have not been to locations of interest, are not symptomatic and who are not the priority for testing. If you were not at a location of interest at the stated times and you have no symptoms, you do not need to be tested. If you have symptoms but you did not visit a location of interest, stay home and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. --- Section Separator --- If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- Northland testing locations (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This applies whether you have symptoms of COVID-19 or not, and regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not be charged for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that your results can be sent to you. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it’s helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by Healthline or your doctor that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not be charged for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- When you are tested, you will be told how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will advise you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive --- Section Separator --- If you need to be tested for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than 1 way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they’re testing. Detailed assessment and testing information from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have been told by a health official to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. If you work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and you have COVID-19 symptoms, your employer can tell you to self-isolate while you wait to get a test or you are waiting for your test results. You will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how employers can apply (external link) You must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process your employer — if you are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- They will tell you what to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you are feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: all the people you have had contact with recently moving you into a quarantine facility. In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus spreading to others, and make sure you’re well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained on cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely monitor your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making all necessary arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It’s up to you and your family/household to decide: if you want to isolate together in a quarantine facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into quarantine alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. On arrival, you will be provided with a ‘welcome pack’ with information about what to expect during your stay. You will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments, so you don’t need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you’re unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or for any COVID-19 related medical costs. The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that didn’t need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. If you have been told by a health official to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. If you work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and you have COVID-19 symptoms, your employer can tell you to self-isolate while you wait to get a test or you are waiting for your test results. You will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how employers can apply (external link) You must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process your employer — if you are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- They will tell you what to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you are feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: all the people you have had contact with recently moving you into a quarantine facility. In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus spreading to others, and make sure you’re well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained on cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely monitor your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making all necessary arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It’s up to you and your family/household to decide: if you want to isolate together in a quarantine facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into quarantine alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. --- Section Separator --- On arrival, you will be provided with a ‘welcome pack’ with information about what to expect during your stay. You will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments, so you don’t need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you’re unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or for any COVID-19 related medical costs. --- Section Separator --- The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that didn’t need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. --- Section Separator --- If you have been told by a health official to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. If you work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and you have COVID-19 symptoms, your employer can tell you to self-isolate while you wait to get a test or you are waiting for your test results. You will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how employers can apply (external link) You must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process your employer — if you are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines
Home Health and wellbeing Exercising safely --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on gathering sizes. We encourage voluntary and not-for-profit sport and recreation facilities and events to display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to assist with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you’re sick, stay home. When exercising in public, keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Community sports are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. A sports field can have multiple defined spaces by keeping: people in groups of up to 100 groups separate either through consistent 2 metre physical distancing when outdoors, or using barriers. We recommend groups be prevented from intermingling or sharing common facilities at the same time. For example, a game of rugby can occur so long as there are no more than 100 people on the field. If that field has a stand on either side, up to 100 people can gather in each stand if they are kept separate from those from the other stand and from players and umpires on the field. Organisers and the person in control of the premises are responsible for collecting contact tracing information. Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link) Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Gatherings, events and public venues Exercise and recreation is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, there's a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others, touch common equipment or surfaces, or need rescuing or medical care. You can do activities that are local and safe. Only exercise alone or with the people in your extended bubble. You need to keep a 2 metre distance from people who aren’t in your bubble, and you are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. The most important thing is to stay safe. Do low-risk activities, so you don’t need rescuing or medical care. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you’re experienced you can do more activities. These include: surfing — if you’re an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you’re not experienced, don’t surf tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people mountain biking — if you're experienced and know the trail swimming — in safe local spots. Don’t take risks that might mean rescue services have to break their bubble to help you horse riding — if you’re an experienced rider and it's low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. Boating, jet-skiing, yachting and scuba diving is not allowed. Team sports and training is also prohibited. Stick to your local area. For example, go to your nearest beach or park, not your favourite one. You can not stay overnight at a bach or holiday home. If you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2 metre distance from others, go home — go out later. We recommend driving as short a distance as you can and still do the activity. Find detailed information about sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. Hunters cannot stay in DOC huts or campgrounds under Alert Level 3 and hunting must also be consistent with the usual local area restrictions. This is not the time to take up hunting as a new hobby. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you want to go fishing you can do so from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. You can fish for whitebait at Alert Level 3 during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and do not use motorised vehicles to get to your fishing spot. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge, and do not enter the water or use a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it’s close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on gathering sizes. We encourage voluntary and not-for-profit sport and recreation facilities and events to display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to assist with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you’re sick, stay home. When exercising in public, keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Community sports are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. A sports field can have multiple defined spaces by keeping: people in groups of up to 100 groups separate either through consistent 2 metre physical distancing when outdoors, or using barriers. We recommend groups be prevented from intermingling or sharing common facilities at the same time. For example, a game of rugby can occur so long as there are no more than 100 people on the field. If that field has a stand on either side, up to 100 people can gather in each stand if they are kept separate from those from the other stand and from players and umpires on the field. Organisers and the person in control of the premises are responsible for collecting contact tracing information. Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link) Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Gatherings, events and public venues --- Section Separator --- Exercise and recreation is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, there's a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others, touch common equipment or surfaces, or need rescuing or medical care. You can do activities that are local and safe. Only exercise alone or with the people in your extended bubble. You need to keep a 2 metre distance from people who aren’t in your bubble, and you are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. The most important thing is to stay safe. Do low-risk activities, so you don’t need rescuing or medical care. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you’re experienced you can do more activities. These include: surfing — if you’re an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you’re not experienced, don’t surf tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people mountain biking — if you're experienced and know the trail swimming — in safe local spots. Don’t take risks that might mean rescue services have to break their bubble to help you horse riding — if you’re an experienced rider and it's low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. Boating, jet-skiing, yachting and scuba diving is not allowed. Team sports and training is also prohibited. Stick to your local area. For example, go to your nearest beach or park, not your favourite one. You can not stay overnight at a bach or holiday home. If you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2 metre distance from others, go home — go out later. We recommend driving as short a distance as you can and still do the activity. Find detailed information about sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. Hunters cannot stay in DOC huts or campgrounds under Alert Level 3 and hunting must also be consistent with the usual local area restrictions. This is not the time to take up hunting as a new hobby. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you want to go fishing you can do so from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. You can fish for whitebait at Alert Level 3 during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and do not use motorised vehicles to get to your fishing spot. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge, and do not enter the water or use a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it’s close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention --- Section Separator --- It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your local Women’s Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services are in your area (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Victim Support — call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit the Victim Support website to find out how they can support victims (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre — call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women’s Refuge — call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women’s Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services — free call 0508 744 633 (9am to 11pm) if you’re experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else Find out more about Shine’s helpline (external link) Family violence information line — call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline — call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) Shakti New Zealand — call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Better Blokes — call 09 378 8812 or email manager@betterblokes.org.nz for free peer support for male survivors of sexual abuse Find out more about Better Blokes (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Rape Crisis Centres — call 0800 88 3300 for contact details of your local centre. Provides support for survivors of sexual abuse, their families, friends and whānau Find out more about Rape Crisis Centres (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand — call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit — call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline — call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they’re going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako — text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop — support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline — call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age (24-hour service) Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki — call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. --- Section Separator --- If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your local Women’s Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services are in your area (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Victim Support — call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit the Victim Support website to find out how they can support victims (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre — call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women’s Refuge — call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women’s Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services — free call 0508 744 633 (9am to 11pm) if you’re experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else Find out more about Shine’s helpline (external link) Family violence information line — call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline — call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) Shakti New Zealand — call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Better Blokes — call 09 378 8812 or email manager@betterblokes.org.nz for free peer support for male survivors of sexual abuse Find out more about Better Blokes (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Rape Crisis Centres — call 0800 88 3300 for contact details of your local centre. Provides support for survivors of sexual abuse, their families, friends and whānau Find out more about Rape Crisis Centres (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand — call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit — call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline — call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they’re going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako — text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop — support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline — call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age (24-hour service) Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki — call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga --- Section Separator --- If someone in your whānau dies: Contact the health provider or doctor of the person who has died. Contact a local funeral director if you want to use one. Choosing a funeral director is an important decision to make after someone dies. You do not have to use a funeral director if you do not want — you can organise everything yourself if you want to. If you decide to use a funeral director, we recommend this being be one of the first things you organise. If the person has died from: an unknown cause, a post-mortem will need to happen. Their health provider will help you in the first instance, and the police may be contacted a known health issue, their health provider will talk to the funeral director when you ’ ve appointed one — the funeral director will pass on this information COVID-19, their health provider will support you with information on what to do next. Ministry of Health advice on deaths, funerals and tangihanga (external link) Information after a death — Te Hokinga ā Wairua End-of-Life Service (external link) Funeral Directors’ Association of New Zealand (external link) Funeral and burial advice from the Office of Ethnic Communities (external link) You might not be able to say goodbye to a loved one, in the way you ’re used to, and this could be very challenging. Read through the basic advice on mental wellbeing and call or text 1737 . Talk with a trained counsellor, for free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Looking after your mental wellbeing There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 1. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold one. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help in contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, up to 100 people can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes churches, mosques and other faith-based institutions hired venues or facilities private dwellings. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. The organiser legally must ensure that contact tracing requirements are met. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau close friends. More information about gatherings and events Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals, tangihanga and burials are allowed at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people in the same bubble may go to view the tūpapaku, the person who has died, by appointment with the funeral director. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in groups of up to 10 from the same bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. We recommend no food or drink being served and physical distancing should be maintained between people. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga we recommend still keeping 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. The general guidance for avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. At Alert Level 3 there are strict restrictions in place for travel between regions. This is necessary to reduce the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel into or out of a region at Alert Level 3 for a funeral or tangihanga you will need to apply for an exemption. Regional travel --- Section Separator --- If someone in your whānau dies: Contact the health provider or doctor of the person who has died. Contact a local funeral director if you want to use one. Choosing a funeral director is an important decision to make after someone dies. You do not have to use a funeral director if you do not want — you can organise everything yourself if you want to. If you decide to use a funeral director, we recommend this being be one of the first things you organise. If the person has died from: an unknown cause, a post-mortem will need to happen. Their health provider will help you in the first instance, and the police may be contacted a known health issue, their health provider will talk to the funeral director when you ’ ve appointed one — the funeral director will pass on this information COVID-19, their health provider will support you with information on what to do next. Ministry of Health advice on deaths, funerals and tangihanga (external link) Information after a death — Te Hokinga ā Wairua End-of-Life Service (external link) Funeral Directors’ Association of New Zealand (external link) Funeral and burial advice from the Office of Ethnic Communities (external link) You might not be able to say goodbye to a loved one, in the way you ’re used to, and this could be very challenging. Read through the basic advice on mental wellbeing and call or text 1737 . Talk with a trained counsellor, for free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 1. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold one. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help in contact tracing. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, up to 100 people can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes churches, mosques and other faith-based institutions hired venues or facilities private dwellings. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. The organiser legally must ensure that contact tracing requirements are met. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau close friends. More information about gatherings and events Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals, tangihanga and burials are allowed at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people in the same bubble may go to view the tūpapaku, the person who has died, by appointment with the funeral director. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in groups of up to 10 from the same bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. We recommend no food or drink being served and physical distancing should be maintained between people. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga we recommend still keeping 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. The general guidance for avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. At Alert Level 3 there are strict restrictions in place for travel between regions. This is necessary to reduce the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel into or out of a region at Alert Level 3 for a funeral or tangihanga you will need to apply for an exemption. Regional travel --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it’s important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in keeping New Zealand well. For more information about New Zealand's flu campaign, and to see if you’re eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu (external link) Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. Cancer screening programmes are continuing to operate, with appropriate safeguards in place to keep participants and staff safe. It is recommended that people over 70, or with pre-existing medical conditions, confirm with their health professional if it’s safe to attend appointments. Cervical and breast screening will continue for most women. The decision to screen those with existing medical conditions will be made on a case-by-case basis. Bowel screening invitations and home testing kits will continue to be sent out. If you receive a kit in the mail, complete it and send it back as soon as possible. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) It’s important that anyone with health concerns contacts Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. Seek medical advice if you’re unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it’s important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. --- Section Separator --- Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in keeping New Zealand well. For more information about New Zealand's flu campaign, and to see if you’re eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu (external link) --- Section Separator --- Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. Cancer screening programmes are continuing to operate, with appropriate safeguards in place to keep participants and staff safe. It is recommended that people over 70, or with pre-existing medical conditions, confirm with their health professional if it’s safe to attend appointments. Cervical and breast screening will continue for most women. The decision to screen those with existing medical conditions will be made on a case-by-case basis. Bowel screening invitations and home testing kits will continue to be sent out. If you receive a kit in the mail, complete it and send it back as soon as possible. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) --- Section Separator --- It’s important that anyone with health concerns contacts Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. Seek medical advice if you’re unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Free tools, resources and apps --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has created a contact-tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury District Health Board and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by former All Black and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whānau on the depression.org.nz website. Coping with COVID-19 — from Depression.org.nz (external link) These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practise new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has created a contact-tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury District Health Board and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by former All Black and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) --- Section Separator --- Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) --- Section Separator --- When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whānau on the depression.org.nz website. Coping with COVID-19 — from Depression.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practise new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing Mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured --- Section Separator --- Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. --- Section Separator --- If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: Stay connected, stay safe (external link) The best online safety tips for lockdown (external link) How to create an online safety plan (external link) This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. Parental controls guide (external link) Privacy settings on social networks (external link) Privacy settings on devices (external link) Switch on safety (external link) Online Safety Parent Toolkit (external link) We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing Keep children safe and reassured Where to go for help Free tools, resources and apps
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Clean surfaces --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean it first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean it first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you’ve been Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find information about contact tracing: --- Section Separator --- Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. The app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you’ve been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Find out more about Bluetooth tracing If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of the 3 Ws: Where you went. When you went there. Who you met. NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- NZ COVID Tracer app: Bluetooth tracing How contact tracing keeps us safe Contact tracing — Golden rules with Panatahi --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] How contact tracing keeps us safe — colouring-in version [PDF, 1014 KB] --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster.
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you’ve been How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) track down people who may have been exposed to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. More about contact tracing at the Ministry of Health (external link) There are 2 types of contacts: close contacts casual contacts. Close contacts are those who are likely to be at a higher risk of being infected. A casual contact is anyone exposed to the case who does not meet the criteria for a close contact. Health services give advice to both of these types of contacts on what they need to do. Close and casual contacts, and what they need to do (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest at a certain time, you may be classed as a casual contact. The Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you should do if you are a casual contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes: If they have, this gives us all the information needed to quickly start pinpointing the source of a cluster/community transmission and anyone else who may have been exposed to the virus. It also helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code wasn’t available. If they have not, there's a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be issued via the app, warning others of the risk. If they were not using the app, an alert probably will not be able to be sent — to avoid sending false alerts and worrying people needlessly. If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app instantly receives information telling them they may have been exposed to COVID-19. They then self-assess whether they or anyone they know has symptoms, and get in touch with Healthline if they do. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been Display QR code posters at your place of business Have a contact tracing register for people who do not use the app --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) track down people who may have been exposed to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. More about contact tracing at the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are 2 types of contacts: close contacts casual contacts. Close contacts are those who are likely to be at a higher risk of being infected. A casual contact is anyone exposed to the case who does not meet the criteria for a close contact. Health services give advice to both of these types of contacts on what they need to do. Close and casual contacts, and what they need to do (external link) --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest at a certain time, you may be classed as a casual contact. The Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you should do if you are a casual contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes: If they have, this gives us all the information needed to quickly start pinpointing the source of a cluster/community transmission and anyone else who may have been exposed to the virus. It also helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code wasn’t available. If they have not, there's a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be issued via the app, warning others of the risk. If they were not using the app, an alert probably will not be able to be sent — to avoid sending false alerts and worrying people needlessly. If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app instantly receives information telling them they may have been exposed to COVID-19. They then self-assess whether they or anyone they know has symptoms, and get in touch with Healthline if they do. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been Display QR code posters at your place of business Have a contact tracing register for people who do not use the app --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet How contact tracing works NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet How contact tracing works Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you’ve been NZ COVID Tracer app The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app has been updated to include Bluetooth tracing technology. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing is not intended to replace our existing contact tracing processes or the NZ COVID Tracer QR codes. You still need to scan QR codes to keep track of where you’ve been. Bluetooth tracing is an added tool — it helps keep track of the people we’ve been near. Once you have turned Bluetooth tracing on, it works by sending out a private and secure random ID code. It’s like your phone is giving digital high-fives to other phones you are near. The Bluetooth tracing function records how close the other phone was, and for how long. The phones you come into contact with will need to have Bluetooth tracing turned on as well. This means that when someone tests positive for COVID-19, they can send an anonymous notification containing all the random IDs their phone has sent out over the past 14 days. If your phone recognises any of these IDs, and you had been close enough for long enough to be at risk of exposure, you’ll receive an alert. This alert will advise you on what to do to keep yourself and your whānau safe. Watch our Bluetooth tracing video on this page to see how it works. To enable Bluetooth tracing, go to the dashboard of the NZ COVID Tracer app. You should see a menu item saying whether Bluetooth tracing is on or not. If it’s off, tap the icon to turn it on. Once Bluetooth tracing is enabled in the app, it will work automatically in the background as long as you have your phone’s Bluetooth setting on. If you don’t see a menu item about Bluetooth tracing on the dashboard, you might need to update the app in the App Store or Play Store. Bluetooth tracing will not use any mobile data, and it will not drain your battery because it uses Bluetooth Low Energy. Read more troubleshooting tips (external link) When you enable Bluetooth tracing, your privacy is always protected — it cannot share your location, your name or anything else about you. Bluetooth tracing also does not record who you came into contact with, or where you were. This means if you receive an alert because you came into contact with someone who tests positive for COVID-19, no one but you knows you have received it. All the contact tracing information you collect with the app is held securely on your phone, and it’s always your choice what information you choose to share. How to enable Bluetooth tracing, device minimum requirements and troubleshooting advice (external link) --- Section Separator --- NZ COVID Tracer app: Bluetooth tracing How contact tracing keeps us safe Contact tracing — Golden rules with Panatahi --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] How contact tracing keeps us safe — colouring-in version [PDF, 1014 KB] --- Section Separator --- Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Taking a few seconds to scan means we can quickly let you know when you have visited a place where you may have been exposed to the virus. You can then take steps to protect yourself and your whānau. It also means if you test positive for the virus, you can instantly give your digital diary to contact tracers. This gives them a massive head start. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. From 10 December, NZ COVID Tracer will have Bluetooth tracing to anonymously keep track of who you have been near. However, it’s still just as important to keep scanning QR codes to keep track of where you’ve been. Both are important for contact tracing. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- If you have questions or feedback about the app or any problems using it: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Information about privacy and COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, you legally must display a NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster if you are a: businesses or service workplace public transport operators. Get your QR code poster Alternative contact tracing systems for people who do not use the app
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you’ve been NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you’re ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you’d like a booklet and cannot print your own. If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. How to use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet: Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. --- Section Separator --- Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you’re ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you’d like a booklet and cannot print your own. If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. --- Section Separator --- How to use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet: Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet How contact tracing works NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet How contact tracing works Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Maintain physical distancing --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as ‘social distancing’, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and aren’t family/whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Even if you’re wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. However, it’s still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help minimise the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. What we can do: Keep a 2 metre distance in public. Take extra care if you interact with people you do not know as it will not be easy to do contact tracing if needed. This means making the space when you’re in places like playgrounds, parks, retail businesses, shopping malls or walking along the street. Keep 1 metre physical distance in ‘controlled environments’ where contact tracing and other public health measures are possible. This includes places like cafes, church groups, gatherings, restaurants and gyms. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you’re feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. Outside of your home, you legally must continue to keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. Workers legally must maintain physical distance in the workplace. --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as ‘social distancing’, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and aren’t family/whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Even if you’re wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. However, it’s still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help minimise the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. What we can do: Keep a 2 metre distance in public. Take extra care if you interact with people you do not know as it will not be easy to do contact tracing if needed. This means making the space when you’re in places like playgrounds, parks, retail businesses, shopping malls or walking along the street. Keep 1 metre physical distance in ‘controlled environments’ where contact tracing and other public health measures are possible. This includes places like cafes, church groups, gatherings, restaurants and gyms. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you’re feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. --- Section Separator --- Outside of your home, you legally must continue to keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. Workers legally must maintain physical distance in the workplace. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. A face covering helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are only 1 part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to wear face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded indoor places, like in supermarkets. You legally must wear a face covering when you’re travelling on a domestic flight anywhere in New Zealand  — this does not include private flights. Be prepared by having a supply of face coverings for everyone who usually lives in your household. Add some to your household emergency kit. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Face coverings do not need to be worn: by children under 12 by students on school buses by passengers in taxis or ride-share services, but drivers are required to on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilots in a cockpit or train drivers in a train cab. You also do not need to wear face coverings if: it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is Deaf or hard of hearing you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink it is required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. If you cannot wear a face covering, you can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you think you need an exemption card, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, Healthline will talk through other options with you. If you prefer, you can contact the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft at Alert Level 2. This includes trains, buses and ferries. They do not need to be worn: by children under 12 on school buses on charter or group tours on inter-island ferries on private scenic flights. These groups are likely to be in each other’s bubbles as part of a registered group or have space to physically distance where possible. Also, face coverings do not need to be worn: by passengers of small passenger vehicles, such as taxis and Uber. Drivers will be required to wear face coverings by people with a disability or physical or mental health condition which makes it difficult to wear a face covering if it’s not safe, for example by pilots if it affects their vision. There will be other times when it's not required. For example: In an emergency. If it’s not safe. If people need to prove their identity. To communicate with someone who is deaf. If required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. Children and young people do not need to wear face coverings at school. This is because the risk of infection within the school environment is low. Other public health control measures will be in place including: children and staff staying home if they’re sick contact tracing hygiene requirements. It’s not mandatory to wear a face covering. Wearing face coverings is advised where it’s not possible to practise physical distancing or to carry out contact tracing. For example, in crowded spaces on Tertiary Education Organisation campuses, or teaching and learning situations where close physical contact cannot be avoided. Teachers do not need to wear face coverings at Alert Level 2. Other public health control measures will be in place including: children and staff staying home if they’re sick contact tracing hygiene requirements. At Alert Level 2, when not on public transport, we recommend you consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft at Alert Level 3. This includes trains, buses, and ferries. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people. When you wear a face covering, it's important you use it safely. How to wear a face covering safely Most people can use non-medical-grade face coverings. These face coverings prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others and could help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade face coverings can be either single-use or reusable. A single-use face covering can only be worn once, and we recommend you throw it away after wearing it. Fabric reusable face coverings can be washed and reused. Non-medical-grade face coverings do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade face coverings online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to rush out and buy one. You can use another kind of covering, like a bandana, scarf or t-shirt. How to make a face covering At raised Alert Levels, people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are advised to avoid contact with the public. If you need to go out, and feel you are vulnerable, you may wish to discuss with your health provider whether using a medical mask is best for you. Medical masks are made to be used by healthcare workers. These masks provide a protective barrier between the healthcare worker and the people they are treating to reduce transmission of infectious diseases. They are used in combination with other measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing when required. They are not reusable and must comply with the standard AS 4381:2015, or international equivalent. Surgical masks are worn by healthcare professionals during healthcare procedures. They generally have a higher level of quality testing and are designed to reduce fluid splash and transmission of infectious diseases. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical and surgical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical, surgical and N95 (or equivalent) masks are available for healthcare workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. Find 2 ways of making a face covering: Make a face covering in under 10 seconds with no sewing. Sew your own face covering. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. A face covering helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are only 1 part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to wear face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded indoor places, like in supermarkets. You legally must wear a face covering when you’re travelling on a domestic flight anywhere in New Zealand  — this does not include private flights. Be prepared by having a supply of face coverings for everyone who usually lives in your household. Add some to your household emergency kit. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Face coverings do not need to be worn: by children under 12 by students on school buses by passengers in taxis or ride-share services, but drivers are required to on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilots in a cockpit or train drivers in a train cab. You also do not need to wear face coverings if: it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is Deaf or hard of hearing you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink it is required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. If you cannot wear a face covering, you can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you think you need an exemption card, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, Healthline will talk through other options with you. If you prefer, you can contact the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz --- Section Separator --- At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft at Alert Level 2. This includes trains, buses and ferries. They do not need to be worn: by children under 12 on school buses on charter or group tours on inter-island ferries on private scenic flights. These groups are likely to be in each other’s bubbles as part of a registered group or have space to physically distance where possible. Also, face coverings do not need to be worn: by passengers of small passenger vehicles, such as taxis and Uber. Drivers will be required to wear face coverings by people with a disability or physical or mental health condition which makes it difficult to wear a face covering if it’s not safe, for example by pilots if it affects their vision. There will be other times when it's not required. For example: In an emergency. If it’s not safe. If people need to prove their identity. To communicate with someone who is deaf. If required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. Children and young people do not need to wear face coverings at school. This is because the risk of infection within the school environment is low. Other public health control measures will be in place including: children and staff staying home if they’re sick contact tracing hygiene requirements. It’s not mandatory to wear a face covering. Wearing face coverings is advised where it’s not possible to practise physical distancing or to carry out contact tracing. For example, in crowded spaces on Tertiary Education Organisation campuses, or teaching and learning situations where close physical contact cannot be avoided. Teachers do not need to wear face coverings at Alert Level 2. Other public health control measures will be in place including: children and staff staying home if they’re sick contact tracing hygiene requirements. At Alert Level 2, when not on public transport, we recommend you consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft at Alert Level 3. This includes trains, buses, and ferries. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people. --- Section Separator --- When you wear a face covering, it's important you use it safely. How to wear a face covering safely --- Section Separator --- Most people can use non-medical-grade face coverings. These face coverings prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others and could help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade face coverings can be either single-use or reusable. A single-use face covering can only be worn once, and we recommend you throw it away after wearing it. Fabric reusable face coverings can be washed and reused. Non-medical-grade face coverings do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade face coverings online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to rush out and buy one. You can use another kind of covering, like a bandana, scarf or t-shirt. How to make a face covering At raised Alert Levels, people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are advised to avoid contact with the public. If you need to go out, and feel you are vulnerable, you may wish to discuss with your health provider whether using a medical mask is best for you. Medical masks are made to be used by healthcare workers. These masks provide a protective barrier between the healthcare worker and the people they are treating to reduce transmission of infectious diseases. They are used in combination with other measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing when required. They are not reusable and must comply with the standard AS 4381:2015, or international equivalent. Surgical masks are worn by healthcare professionals during healthcare procedures. They generally have a higher level of quality testing and are designed to reduce fluid splash and transmission of infectious diseases. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical and surgical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical, surgical and N95 (or equivalent) masks are available for healthcare workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. --- Section Separator --- Find 2 ways of making a face covering: Make a face covering in under 10 seconds with no sewing. Sew your own face covering. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Te Whare Tapa Whā --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. We can look after our physical health by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home if we’re sick physically distancing from people we don’t know cleaning surfaces that have been touched. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- We can look after our physical health by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home if we’re sick physically distancing from people we don’t know cleaning surfaces that have been touched. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. --- Section Separator --- Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited pre-Christmas, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you regularly check the Managed Isolation Allocation System website for your preferred date. Plan for your stay in managed isolation --- Section Separator --- How to plan your travel to New Zealand and what will happen when you arrive. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Information about leaving your house, local travel and regional travel. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about registering with SafeTravel, how to travel to New Zealand and border controls when you arrive. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you can not get home. --- Section Separator --- How to plan your travel to New Zealand and what will happen when you arrive. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Information about leaving your house, local travel and regional travel. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about registering with SafeTravel, how to travel to New Zealand and border controls when you arrive. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you can not get home.
Home Travel and the border Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand You can travel from New Zealand to some states in Australia without needing to quarantine there if you: have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more and have not been in a designated COVID-19 outbreak location, and are travelling to Australia on a quarantine-free flight. If you want to avoid quarantine, you can only travel to: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland, or Victoria. If you want to travel on to other states or territories, you will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may require you to quarantine when you arrive. You will need to complete an Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart for Australia. The Australian Government has more information on: COVID-19 outbreak locations, and if there are any in New Zealand completing an Australia Travel Declaration before you depart whether you need a visa to enter Australia travel exemptions if you have been in New Zealand for less than 14 days, including if you are transiting. Guidance on travelling from New Zealand to Australia (external link) If you plan to travel back to New Zealand after your trip to Australia, you will need to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You may have to pay for your stay. Before booking your flights, you need to register for a voucher to secure your place in a managed isolation facility. Managed isolation and quarantine in New Zealand (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your GP. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your GP or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can travel from New Zealand to some states in Australia without needing to quarantine there if you: have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more and have not been in a designated COVID-19 outbreak location, and are travelling to Australia on a quarantine-free flight. If you want to avoid quarantine, you can only travel to: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland, or Victoria. If you want to travel on to other states or territories, you will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may require you to quarantine when you arrive. You will need to complete an Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart for Australia. The Australian Government has more information on: COVID-19 outbreak locations, and if there are any in New Zealand completing an Australia Travel Declaration before you depart whether you need a visa to enter Australia travel exemptions if you have been in New Zealand for less than 14 days, including if you are transiting. Guidance on travelling from New Zealand to Australia (external link) If you plan to travel back to New Zealand after your trip to Australia, you will need to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You may have to pay for your stay. Before booking your flights, you need to register for a voucher to secure your place in a managed isolation facility. Managed isolation and quarantine in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your GP. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your GP or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you're in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands can undertake quarantine-free travel to New Zealand. Plan your travel to New Zealand It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you're in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands can undertake quarantine-free travel to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) You should check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- You should check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands can undertake quarantine-free travel to New Zealand. If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. We recommend you contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. Contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from or transiting through areas affected by border measures. Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessels can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visa information for critical workers in the maritime sector (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) You can now travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand You will not be able to go to the shops when you first arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. What to bring with you to New Zealand (external link) Keep yourself, your whānau and those around you safe while travelling to New Zealand. Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. Doing these things will help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it home with you. What happens when you arrive back in New Zealand depends on whether you arrive by air or sea. Arriving in New Zealand and being transferred to a managed isolation or quarantine facility (external link) Entering a managed isolation facility, and what to expect (external link) When you arrive by air, you will be screened for cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms at the airport. If you have symptoms or are waiting for the results of a test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to a managed isolation facility. Both types of facilities are in hotels. When you arrive by sea, you may complete your isolation on your vessel. International transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands can undertake quarantine-free travel to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. We recommend you contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. Contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from or transiting through areas affected by border measures. Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessels can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visa information for critical workers in the maritime sector (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can now travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You will not be able to go to the shops when you first arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. What to bring with you to New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keep yourself, your whānau and those around you safe while travelling to New Zealand. Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. Doing these things will help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it home with you. --- Section Separator --- What happens when you arrive back in New Zealand depends on whether you arrive by air or sea. Arriving in New Zealand and being transferred to a managed isolation or quarantine facility (external link) Entering a managed isolation facility, and what to expect (external link) When you arrive by air, you will be screened for cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms at the airport. If you have symptoms or are waiting for the results of a test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to a managed isolation facility. Both types of facilities are in hotels. When you arrive by sea, you may complete your isolation on your vessel. --- Section Separator --- International transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine --- Section Separator --- While our borders are closed, New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have a legal right to come home. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. People are tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1, day 3 and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave. People are exempt from a day 0/1 test if they arrive from Australia, Antarctica or most Pacific islands. Over 68,000 people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. When you arrive in New Zealand you are screened for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. We have put in place a robust system for exemptions from managed isolation. Releases from managed isolation are only issued in very limited circumstances, and where the public health risk is low and can be managed. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website, run by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE), has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Exemptions from managed isolation and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- While our borders are closed, New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have a legal right to come home. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. People are tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1, day 3 and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave. People are exempt from a day 0/1 test if they arrive from Australia, Antarctica or most Pacific islands. Over 68,000 people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. When you arrive in New Zealand you are screened for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. --- Section Separator --- You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. We have put in place a robust system for exemptions from managed isolation. Releases from managed isolation are only issued in very limited circumstances, and where the public health risk is low and can be managed. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website, run by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE), has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Exemptions from managed isolation and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The Government has been monitoring overseas developments and is concerned about high rates of infection and new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. This additional measure reduces the risk of infected travellers on international flights infecting other travellers. The Government now requires all travellers to New Zealand (except those from exempt locations) to have a COVID-19 test taken and a negative result returned within 72 hours of their first scheduled international flight. For travellers from the UK or the US, this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on 15 January 2021. For travellers from other countries (except those from exempt locations) this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. If you are planning to travel to New Zealand soon, it is a good idea to work out how you will be able to get your pre-departure test results within 72 hours of your departure. Contact your airline for more information about flights and any pre-departure requirements. Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. Children under 2 years of age (24 months) do not need to take a pre-departure test. Children over the age of 2 (24 months) will need evidence of a negative pre-departure test. Locations included are Antarctica, Australia, the Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Palau, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna. Locations included are Albania, Belize, Dominica, Kenya, Laos, Montenegro, Myanmar, Slovenia, St Kitts and Nevis, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. These locations are exempt as they are unable to provide pre-departure testing for travellers to the standard required by New Zealand. Instead, travellers from these locations must obtain a certificate from a suitably qualified health practitioner (or a person who is registered or licensed as an equivalent health professional overseas). This needs to be obtained no more than 72 hours before the journey begins confirming they do not have symptoms which indicate that they are likely to transmit COVID-19. Travellers need to produce this certificate when requested by the following: a health protection officer; a staff member or representative of the relevant air carrier; an immigration officer; or an enforcement officer; All arrivals from these locations are still required to complete 14 days in managed isolation. They are also subject to day 0/1, day 3 and day 12 testing during their stay If you cannot take a test due to medical reasons, you will need to see a medical practitioner within 72 hours of your departure. They will examine you for symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not have symptoms of COVID-19, they will need to provide you a medical certificate stating you cannot take a test due to medical reasons but do not have symptoms. This will be accepted as meeting the pre-departure testing requirements. If you have received a COVID-19 vaccination you will still need to take a test. If you return a positive result, you will need a medical certificate verifying that you are not infectious with COVID-19. You should factor this into your timings, and check with your airlines on any regulations they may have in place regarding vaccinations. On 20 January, the Ministry of Health confirmed the following types of tests are acceptable by the New Zealand Director-General of Health: PCR test (including RT-PCR) LAMP, or antigen tests (they may also be referred to as viral antigen tests). All tests must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. If you choose to take an at-home COVID-19 test, it must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. You should also check the requirements of other countries you are going to be transiting through. They may have requirements that are different to what New Zealand requires. Learn more about the Ministry of Health testing requirements (external link) If you are unable to take a test for medical reasons you are required to provide a medical certificate. A Fit to Fly Certificate will be accepted as proof of pre-departure testing documentation if it is consistent with both the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order requirements and the subsequent Gazetted requirements regarding pre-departure testing. Acceptable Fit to Fly Certificates must contain the following six elements: Name of person tested Date of birth of person tested Name of the laboratory at which the COVID-19 test was processed Written confirmation from the laboratory of the result of a COVID-19 test Written confirmation of the time and date (local time) when the COVID-19 test was conducted Written confirmation of the type of test that was conducted If your test result record does not provide this information, you may be prevented from boarding the aircraft. Please ensure this information will be provided to you by your testing facility when you get tested. You can get tested at a range of airports, or from private laboratories. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Private providers for coronavirus testing (external link) Book a test at Heathrow Airport (external link) Learn more about CDC's recommendations for testing and international air travel (external link) You should contact the local health authority of the country that you are in for information about COVID-19 testing locations and booking arrangements (if available). Most health authorities advertise COVID-19 testing locations on their websites. If you have a positive pre-departure test, but believe this is because of a historical COVID-19 infection, you need to see a medical practitioner who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not currently have a COVID-19 infection, you will need them to provide a medical certificate with the date of your previous positive test (if applicable) and documentation stating that they consider you as no longer being infectious with COVID-19. It may take time to get an appointment, so if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3 months, book your medical examination in advance of receiving your test results. You should also check with your airlines about any regulations they may have in place regarding past COVID-19 infections. If you test positive, you may not be able to board your flight. You should postpone your travel and follow local public health advice. If you choose to travel at a later date when you have recovered, you will be required to get a medical certificate within 72 hours from the time of departure that confirms that you had a positive COVID-19 test but have now recovered. If your negative test result does not arrive in time for your flight, you can reschedule your flight for no more than 24 hours later, even if this takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled time of your first flight. If your flight is cancelled, the requirement would remain that you need to have had a test with a negative result no more than 72 hours before departure of your new flight. If your flight is delayed by 24 hours or less and you have a negative result, you can still travel, even if it takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first flight. You need to keep a record of your original scheduled flight for presenting to airline staff and Customs officers. Travellers are responsible for testing costs. You should work with airlines to rebook your flights, and contact Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) about your placement. MIQ is working hard to accommodate travellers that might be impacted by the new testing requirements. If you are impacted by the pre-departure testing requirements you should work with your airline to rebook your flights and contact MIQ for information about your MIQ placement. Contact MIQ about your placement (external link) If you need consular assistance, contact the Embassy, High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. You are responsible for bringing your test results or medical certificate to the airport and providing the required information. Without the information you may be denied boarding and be subject to an infringement fine. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result. Either a hard copy or an electronic copy (email/text message) of your negative test result, or a Fit to Fly Certificate, will be accepted. A text message will be accepted only if it includes an image of the laboratory result form. Hold on to all documents and treat your negative test results and Managed Isolation voucher with the same importance as your passport — you may be asked to show these as you transit and on arrival in New Zealand. Pre-departure testing is an additional measure to further reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases in New Zealand, in line with our elimination strategy. It is complementary to existing testing requirements, such as day 0/1 testing, and does not duplicate them. All travellers to New Zealand are required to undergo day 0/1 testing within 24 hours of arriving at a managed isolation and quarantine facility. If you’re asked for evidence of your negative COVID-19 test result or a medical certificate, and you cannot provide it, you may be denied boarding. You will be asked to provide this information to a Customs officer when entering New Zealand. All travellers arriving in New Zealand after 8 February 2021 without evidence of a negative approved test may incur an infringement offence fee or a fine not exceeding $1,000. The pre-departure test is a measure to keep us all safe. Most airlines already require travellers to have a pre-departure test and provide evidence of a negative result before boarding a plane. Pre-departure tests are also a legal requirement for most countries that are transit hubs. --- Section Separator --- The Government has been monitoring overseas developments and is concerned about high rates of infection and new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. This additional measure reduces the risk of infected travellers on international flights infecting other travellers. --- Section Separator --- The Government now requires all travellers to New Zealand (except those from exempt locations) to have a COVID-19 test taken and a negative result returned within 72 hours of their first scheduled international flight. For travellers from the UK or the US, this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on 15 January 2021. For travellers from other countries (except those from exempt locations) this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. If you are planning to travel to New Zealand soon, it is a good idea to work out how you will be able to get your pre-departure test results within 72 hours of your departure. Contact your airline for more information about flights and any pre-departure requirements. --- Section Separator --- Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. Children under 2 years of age (24 months) do not need to take a pre-departure test. Children over the age of 2 (24 months) will need evidence of a negative pre-departure test. Locations included are Antarctica, Australia, the Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Palau, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna. Locations included are Albania, Belize, Dominica, Kenya, Laos, Montenegro, Myanmar, Slovenia, St Kitts and Nevis, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. These locations are exempt as they are unable to provide pre-departure testing for travellers to the standard required by New Zealand. Instead, travellers from these locations must obtain a certificate from a suitably qualified health practitioner (or a person who is registered or licensed as an equivalent health professional overseas). This needs to be obtained no more than 72 hours before the journey begins confirming they do not have symptoms which indicate that they are likely to transmit COVID-19. Travellers need to produce this certificate when requested by the following: a health protection officer; a staff member or representative of the relevant air carrier; an immigration officer; or an enforcement officer; All arrivals from these locations are still required to complete 14 days in managed isolation. They are also subject to day 0/1, day 3 and day 12 testing during their stay If you cannot take a test due to medical reasons, you will need to see a medical practitioner within 72 hours of your departure. They will examine you for symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not have symptoms of COVID-19, they will need to provide you a medical certificate stating you cannot take a test due to medical reasons but do not have symptoms. This will be accepted as meeting the pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- If you have received a COVID-19 vaccination you will still need to take a test. If you return a positive result, you will need a medical certificate verifying that you are not infectious with COVID-19. You should factor this into your timings, and check with your airlines on any regulations they may have in place regarding vaccinations. --- Section Separator --- On 20 January, the Ministry of Health confirmed the following types of tests are acceptable by the New Zealand Director-General of Health: PCR test (including RT-PCR) LAMP, or antigen tests (they may also be referred to as viral antigen tests). All tests must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. If you choose to take an at-home COVID-19 test, it must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. You should also check the requirements of other countries you are going to be transiting through. They may have requirements that are different to what New Zealand requires. Learn more about the Ministry of Health testing requirements (external link) If you are unable to take a test for medical reasons you are required to provide a medical certificate. A Fit to Fly Certificate will be accepted as proof of pre-departure testing documentation if it is consistent with both the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order requirements and the subsequent Gazetted requirements regarding pre-departure testing. Acceptable Fit to Fly Certificates must contain the following six elements: Name of person tested Date of birth of person tested Name of the laboratory at which the COVID-19 test was processed Written confirmation from the laboratory of the result of a COVID-19 test Written confirmation of the time and date (local time) when the COVID-19 test was conducted Written confirmation of the type of test that was conducted If your test result record does not provide this information, you may be prevented from boarding the aircraft. Please ensure this information will be provided to you by your testing facility when you get tested. --- Section Separator --- You can get tested at a range of airports, or from private laboratories. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Private providers for coronavirus testing (external link) Book a test at Heathrow Airport (external link) Learn more about CDC's recommendations for testing and international air travel (external link) You should contact the local health authority of the country that you are in for information about COVID-19 testing locations and booking arrangements (if available). Most health authorities advertise COVID-19 testing locations on their websites. --- Section Separator --- If you have a positive pre-departure test, but believe this is because of a historical COVID-19 infection, you need to see a medical practitioner who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not currently have a COVID-19 infection, you will need them to provide a medical certificate with the date of your previous positive test (if applicable) and documentation stating that they consider you as no longer being infectious with COVID-19. It may take time to get an appointment, so if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3 months, book your medical examination in advance of receiving your test results. You should also check with your airlines about any regulations they may have in place regarding past COVID-19 infections. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive, you may not be able to board your flight. You should postpone your travel and follow local public health advice. If you choose to travel at a later date when you have recovered, you will be required to get a medical certificate within 72 hours from the time of departure that confirms that you had a positive COVID-19 test but have now recovered. --- Section Separator --- If your negative test result does not arrive in time for your flight, you can reschedule your flight for no more than 24 hours later, even if this takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled time of your first flight. --- Section Separator --- If your flight is cancelled, the requirement would remain that you need to have had a test with a negative result no more than 72 hours before departure of your new flight. If your flight is delayed by 24 hours or less and you have a negative result, you can still travel, even if it takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first flight. You need to keep a record of your original scheduled flight for presenting to airline staff and Customs officers. --- Section Separator --- Travellers are responsible for testing costs. --- Section Separator --- You should work with airlines to rebook your flights, and contact Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) about your placement. MIQ is working hard to accommodate travellers that might be impacted by the new testing requirements. If you are impacted by the pre-departure testing requirements you should work with your airline to rebook your flights and contact MIQ for information about your MIQ placement. Contact MIQ about your placement (external link) If you need consular assistance, contact the Embassy, High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for bringing your test results or medical certificate to the airport and providing the required information. Without the information you may be denied boarding and be subject to an infringement fine. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result. Either a hard copy or an electronic copy (email/text message) of your negative test result, or a Fit to Fly Certificate, will be accepted. A text message will be accepted only if it includes an image of the laboratory result form. Hold on to all documents and treat your negative test results and Managed Isolation voucher with the same importance as your passport — you may be asked to show these as you transit and on arrival in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Pre-departure testing is an additional measure to further reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases in New Zealand, in line with our elimination strategy. It is complementary to existing testing requirements, such as day 0/1 testing, and does not duplicate them. All travellers to New Zealand are required to undergo day 0/1 testing within 24 hours of arriving at a managed isolation and quarantine facility. --- Section Separator --- If you’re asked for evidence of your negative COVID-19 test result or a medical certificate, and you cannot provide it, you may be denied boarding. You will be asked to provide this information to a Customs officer when entering New Zealand. All travellers arriving in New Zealand after 8 February 2021 without evidence of a negative approved test may incur an infringement offence fee or a fine not exceeding $1,000. The pre-departure test is a measure to keep us all safe. Most airlines already require travellers to have a pre-departure test and provide evidence of a negative result before boarding a plane. Pre-departure tests are also a legal requirement for most countries that are transit hubs. --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Teretere Noʻoʻanga ʻAkapaeʻanga-kore mei te Kūki ʻĀirani ki Aotearoa | Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand You can now travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. If you're travelling quarantine free from the Cook Islands to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from the Cook Islands are likely to be New Zealand or Australian citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. You must be in the Cook Islands when you apply. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) Quarantine-free travel is available from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. If you’re from the Cook Islands and you wish to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the relevant entry requirements of your onwards destination. If you’re in the Cook Islands and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside New Zealand and the Cook Islands in the past 14 days. You must maintain physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the arrival airport who did not arrive from the Cook Islands. You must wear a face covering while in the arrival airport. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. Departures from Rarotonga International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You will need to wear a face covering on your flight. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at Rarotonga Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility for 14 days. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from the Cook Islands do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Cook Islands arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from the Cook Islands. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from the Cook Islands. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Cook Islands arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed, or if you have to enter isolation when you return. If you’re travelling to New Zealand quarantine free from the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go, so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app. Download NZ COVID Tracer If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be available when you arrive. Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Wear a face covering when you’re on public transport in Auckland. You do not need to do this outside Auckland. If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. You can find information on this website. About the Alert Level system Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. The Cook Islands Government must approve all people who want to travel to the Cook Islands. To get approval to travel, you must: be eligible to travel to the Cook Islands have a negative COVID-19 test result 96 hours before your scheduled departure tell Te Marae Ora of your negative result, and ask for approval to travel, and complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Who can travel to the Cook Islands, and conditions you must meet (external link) You can also email the Cook Islands Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Immigration at immigration2@cookislands.gov.ck This announcement does not affect you if you are already in a managed isolation facility. You will still need to complete your 14 days. Advice for Cook Islands travellers arriving in NZ [PDF, 98 KB] Teretere Noʻoʻanga ʻAkapaeʻanga-kore mei te Kūki ʻĀirani ki Aotearoa — quarantine-free travel information in Cook Islands Māori --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Teretere Noʻoʻanga ʻAkapaeʻanga-kore mei te Kūki ʻĀirani ki Aotearoa | Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can now travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. --- Section Separator --- If you're travelling quarantine free from the Cook Islands to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from the Cook Islands are likely to be New Zealand or Australian citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. You must be in the Cook Islands when you apply. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) Quarantine-free travel is available from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. If you’re from the Cook Islands and you wish to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the relevant entry requirements of your onwards destination. --- Section Separator --- If you’re in the Cook Islands and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside New Zealand and the Cook Islands in the past 14 days. You must maintain physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the arrival airport who did not arrive from the Cook Islands. You must wear a face covering while in the arrival airport. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. --- Section Separator --- Departures from Rarotonga International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You will need to wear a face covering on your flight. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at Rarotonga Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility for 14 days. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from the Cook Islands do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Cook Islands arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from the Cook Islands. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from the Cook Islands. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Cook Islands arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. --- Section Separator --- You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed, or if you have to enter isolation when you return. --- Section Separator --- If you’re travelling to New Zealand quarantine free from the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go, so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app. Download NZ COVID Tracer If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be available when you arrive. Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Wear a face covering when you’re on public transport in Auckland. You do not need to do this outside Auckland. If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. You can find information on this website. About the Alert Level system --- Section Separator --- Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. The Cook Islands Government must approve all people who want to travel to the Cook Islands. To get approval to travel, you must: be eligible to travel to the Cook Islands have a negative COVID-19 test result 96 hours before your scheduled departure tell Te Marae Ora of your negative result, and ask for approval to travel, and complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Who can travel to the Cook Islands, and conditions you must meet (external link) You can also email the Cook Islands Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Immigration at immigration2@cookislands.gov.ck --- Section Separator --- This announcement does not affect you if you are already in a managed isolation facility. You will still need to complete your 14 days. --- Section Separator --- Advice for Cook Islands travellers arriving in NZ [PDF, 98 KB] Teretere Noʻoʻanga ʻAkapaeʻanga-kore mei te Kūki ʻĀirani ki Aotearoa — quarantine-free travel information in Cook Islands Māori --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel within New Zealand Local travel --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wear a face covering At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering You legally must wear a face covering when you’re travelling anywhere on a domestic flight in New Zealand — this does not include private flights. There is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to continue using a face covering on public transport. Wear a face covering At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way: Follow hygiene practices. Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. At other times, consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Minimise the number of places you stop on the way to your destination. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk on public transport: Avoid sitting or standing next to someone you do not know, where possible. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information You can use a private vehicle for transport. Please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine. Keep a 2 metre distance from other pedestrians. Take extra care if you need to step out into the street as there will be more traffic at Alert Level 2. If you’re healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Guidelines when travelling by taxi or ride-share: Stay home if you're sick. Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing servic es need to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3, travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people, like in shops. Do not travel outside of your region unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. You can use public transport to travel within your local area, but only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot stay at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your bubble. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services for only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. To help limit the spread of any virus, we recommend those who are unwell stay at home. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . All driver licences, warrants of fitness (WoFs), certificates of fitness (CoFs) and some vehicle certifications that expired on or after 1 January 2020 were extended until 10 October 2020. This recognised that during Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3, through no fault of their own, many New Zealanders were unable to keep these documents up to date. This extension allowed vehicle users extra time to allow them to get up to date. As well as general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. If you're a passenger, sit in the rear passenger seats only — avoid sitting in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you’re the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle. Most cars normally have 3 rear passenger seats. You’re encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing services in Auckland legally must wear a face covering. If you are a passenger in a taxi of ride-share, we strongly encourage you to wear a face covering. Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information if not already provided, for example, electronically through an app or booking system. More details about transport restrictions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering You legally must wear a face covering when you’re travelling anywhere on a domestic flight in New Zealand — this does not include private flights. There is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to continue using a face covering on public transport. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way: Follow hygiene practices. Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. At other times, consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Minimise the number of places you stop on the way to your destination. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk on public transport: Avoid sitting or standing next to someone you do not know, where possible. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information You can use a private vehicle for transport. Please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine. Keep a 2 metre distance from other pedestrians. Take extra care if you need to step out into the street as there will be more traffic at Alert Level 2. If you’re healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Guidelines when travelling by taxi or ride-share: Stay home if you're sick. Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing servic es need to wear a face covering. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people, like in shops. Do not travel outside of your region unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. You can use public transport to travel within your local area, but only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot stay at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your bubble. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services for only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. --- Section Separator --- To help limit the spread of any virus, we recommend those who are unwell stay at home. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- All driver licences, warrants of fitness (WoFs), certificates of fitness (CoFs) and some vehicle certifications that expired on or after 1 January 2020 were extended until 10 October 2020. This recognised that during Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3, through no fault of their own, many New Zealanders were unable to keep these documents up to date. This extension allowed vehicle users extra time to allow them to get up to date. --- Section Separator --- As well as general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. If you're a passenger, sit in the rear passenger seats only — avoid sitting in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you’re the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle. Most cars normally have 3 rear passenger seats. You’re encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing services in Auckland legally must wear a face covering. If you are a passenger in a taxi of ride-share, we strongly encourage you to wear a face covering. Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information if not already provided, for example, electronically through an app or booking system. More details about transport restrictions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Local travel Regional travel
Home Travel and the border Travel within New Zealand Regional travel --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wear a face covering If you’re living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you've been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Even when it is not a legal requirement, we encourage you to wear face coverings on public transport. Wear a face covering If you're sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP or Nurse Practitioner to find out if you should get a test. If you're advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses If you’re living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you’re sick, please don’t travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft. There are exceptions. Face coverings Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you don’t know, where possible. Do not travel: if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you’re allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. In the event of a COVID-19 resurgence, a regional Alert Level boundary could be put in place to ring-fence a certain area where there is a higher risk of transmission — for example to separate an area at Alert Level 3 from other areas at Alert Level 2, as in Auckland in August 2020. Movement across any Alert Level 3 boundary would be strictly limited to manage the risk of the virus spreading. Permissions to travel across any Alert Level 3 boundary fall into three categories: Category 1 – movement that would be permitted under all circumstances, for example border services and emergency services Category 2 – movement likely to be permitted, but for which an assessment would be required, for example primary industries Category 3 – all other movement would be unlikely to be permitted, unless through a specific exemption issued by the Director-General of Health. The Ministry of Health and MBIE have developed an online registration system that could be activated for both businesses and services, and personal, movement across an Alert Level boundary. The system would enable businesses and services to register before any Alert Level increase came into effect, and automatically generate standardised, verifiable documentation to support police enforcement and facilitate efficient movement through checkpoints. The system is ready to be activated in the event of an Alert Level 3 boundary, at which time more information will be published on the website of the approval agency: Business travel permissions – apply through www.business.govt.nz (external link) Personal movement exemptions – apply through www.health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- If you’re living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you've been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Even when it is not a legal requirement, we encourage you to wear face coverings on public transport. Wear a face covering If you're sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP or Nurse Practitioner to find out if you should get a test. If you're advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- If you’re living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you’re sick, please don’t travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft. There are exceptions. Face coverings Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you don’t know, where possible. Do not travel: if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you’re allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. --- Section Separator --- In the event of a COVID-19 resurgence, a regional Alert Level boundary could be put in place to ring-fence a certain area where there is a higher risk of transmission — for example to separate an area at Alert Level 3 from other areas at Alert Level 2, as in Auckland in August 2020. Movement across any Alert Level 3 boundary would be strictly limited to manage the risk of the virus spreading. Permissions to travel across any Alert Level 3 boundary fall into three categories: Category 1 – movement that would be permitted under all circumstances, for example border services and emergency services Category 2 – movement likely to be permitted, but for which an assessment would be required, for example primary industries Category 3 – all other movement would be unlikely to be permitted, unless through a specific exemption issued by the Director-General of Health. The Ministry of Health and MBIE have developed an online registration system that could be activated for both businesses and services, and personal, movement across an Alert Level boundary. The system would enable businesses and services to register before any Alert Level increase came into effect, and automatically generate standardised, verifiable documentation to support police enforcement and facilitate efficient movement through checkpoints. The system is ready to be activated in the event of an Alert Level 3 boundary, at which time more information will be published on the website of the approval agency: Business travel permissions – apply through www.business.govt.nz (external link) Personal movement exemptions – apply through www.health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Local travel Regional travel
Advice in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information in Large Print and audio formats. --- Section Separator --- Advice in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information in Large Print and audio formats.
Home Updates and resources Accessible information Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 14 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.1 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 14 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 2.4 MB] Visiting family and friends [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Visiting family and friends [PDF, 1 MB] Leaving your home and going out [DOCX, 6.7 MB] Leaving your home and going out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [DOCX, 3 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [PDF, 685 KB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Going back to school or university [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Going back to school or university [PDF, 996 KB] Travelling in NZ [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in NZ [PDF, 1.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Information on wearing face coverings or face masks [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information on wearing face coverings or face masks [PDF, 1.1 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 14 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.1 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [PDF, 1.4 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [PDF, 1.6 MB] Exercise [DOCX, 2.9 MB] Exercise [PDF, 1.3 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 951 KB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [DOCX, 3.8 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [PDF, 1.1 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [DOCX, 3.9 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.2 MB] Make summer unstoppable — Let's have a great summer [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Make summer unstoppable — Let's have a great summer [PDF, 1 MB] Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [DOCX, 14 MB] Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [DOCX, 9.9 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [PDF, 1.7 MB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information [PDF, 850 KB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [PDF, 1.3 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 14 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.1 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] --- Section Separator --- Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 14 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 2.4 MB] Visiting family and friends [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Visiting family and friends [PDF, 1 MB] Leaving your home and going out [DOCX, 6.7 MB] Leaving your home and going out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [DOCX, 3 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [PDF, 685 KB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Going back to school or university [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Going back to school or university [PDF, 996 KB] Travelling in NZ [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in NZ [PDF, 1.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information on wearing face coverings or face masks [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information on wearing face coverings or face masks [PDF, 1.1 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 14 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.1 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [PDF, 1.4 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Staying in your bubble [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [PDF, 1.6 MB] Exercise [DOCX, 2.9 MB] Exercise [PDF, 1.3 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 951 KB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [DOCX, 3.8 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [PDF, 1.1 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [DOCX, 3.9 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Make summer unstoppable — Let's have a great summer [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Make summer unstoppable — Let's have a great summer [PDF, 1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [DOCX, 14 MB] Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [DOCX, 9.9 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [PDF, 1.7 MB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information [PDF, 850 KB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself when you are sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio
Home Updates and resources Accessible information Large Print and audio --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 1.6 MB] Information about Alert Levels 2 and 3, including golden rules for business, face coverings, staying safe and contact tracing. Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] Golden rules for business at Alert Levels 2 and 3 [DOCX, 71 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] Golden rules for business at Alert Levels 2 and 3 [MP3, 1.2 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] Information about COVID-19, including assessment and testing. COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] Assessment and testing [DOCX, 66 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] Assessment and testing [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 95 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 3.4 MB] Face coverings and masks — updated 20 Nov 2020 Face coverings and masks — full audio [MP3, 1.8 MB] Contact details for a range of services that can support you during COVID-19. Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Information and advice on how people can look after their mental wellbeing. Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about Alert Levels 2 and 3, including golden rules for business, face coverings, staying safe and contact tracing. Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] Golden rules for business at Alert Levels 2 and 3 [DOCX, 71 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] Golden rules for business at Alert Levels 2 and 3 [MP3, 1.2 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including assessment and testing. COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] Assessment and testing [DOCX, 66 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] Assessment and testing [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] --- Section Separator --- NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 95 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks — updated 20 Nov 2020 Face coverings and masks — full audio [MP3, 1.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- Contact details for a range of services that can support you during COVID-19. Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information and advice on how people can look after their mental wellbeing. Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio
Home Updates and resources Accessible information New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It's OK to ask for help (external link) It's OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) --- Section Separator --- Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It's OK to ask for help (external link) It's OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio
Displaying 1-10 of 190 updates 01 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 29 Jan 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 28 Jan 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 27 Jan 2021 Two cases who completed their managed isolation in the same facility and at the same time as the Northland case are now confirmed COVID-19 infections. 27 Jan 2021 Two other former returnees who completed their managed isolation in the same facility and at the same time as the Northland case are now under investigation. 27 Jan 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 26 Jan 2021 The Government is making swift progress towards vaccinating New Zealanders against the virus, but is absolutely committed to ensuring the vaccines are safe. 26 Jan 2021 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Jan 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 24 Jan 2021 The Ministry of Health is investigating a positive case of COVID-19 detected in Northland that is linked to a managed isolation facility.
Advice if you're in Auckland Advice if you're in Northland --- Section Separator --- While we still can’t categorically rule these out as historical infections, test results so far indicate the two people may have contracted COVID-19 towards the end of their stay in managed isolation, after returning two negative tests each during their stay. It’s too early to early to make a firm conclusion. Genome sequencing results, which are expected tomorrow, and serology results expected the following day, will help develop the picture further. However, out of an abundance of caution we are now responding as if these are confirmed current infections. We understand that many will be anxious, but it’s important to remember we are carrying out these measures as a precaution. There is no evidence so far that suggests community transmission — but we need the right people to isolate and get tested. The two former returnees were initially classified as under investigation after returning positive tests and pending further investigation to determine if the infections were recent or historical. They returned a second positive test with a higher CT value which led to them being treated as confirmed cases. A third person in the family’s bubble has tested negative. The two family members who tested positive are in the process of being moved to Auckland’s quarantine facility. The two positive cases completed quarantine on 15 January and have been residing in North Auckland since. Further interviews are being carried out to determine the family’s detailed movements since they left managed isolation to identify close and casual contacts. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health website has a list of exposure events which include a location, date and time. View the locations of interest in Auckland (external link) People who have visited those locations during the time period, and as ever, anyone in Auckland with symptoms, are asked to: isolate and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to arrange a test, and remain isolated until they receive their result. It’s important the right people isolate and get tested, so we don’t overwhelm testing centres. This will come as news to some locations of interest as we move quickly to respond and we thank them for their understanding and cooperation. --- Section Separator --- A number of walk-in / drive-thru community testing centres will be open in Auckland — some with extended hours. These can be found on the ARPHS website and Healthline will have this information too. The website also includes extra pop-up community testing centres, targeted to North Auckland. Find a testing centre in Auckland (external link) --- Section Separator --- In addition, Aucklanders and people travelling to the city should follow key public health advice: wash your hands; use a mask on public transport; use the NZ Covid Tracer App; and if you develop symptoms, isolate and seek advice from Healthline about getting tested. --- Section Separator --- A number of steps have already been put in place at the Pullman hotel including: a deep clean of commonly used areas tighter restrictions on movement of returnees including no arrivals or departures increasing hotel ventilation requesting returnees who’ve recently left, to not fly, to stay home and have an additional test within 48 hours restricting staff from working at other sites tighter restrictions on movement of returnees including no arrivals or departures from the facility.
This information is not the latest available. Read more about pre-departure testing requirements: Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Given the high rates of infection in many countries and evidence of the global spread of more transmissible variants, it’s clear that most global air routes will be of critical concern for the foreseeable future, and we must respond strongly to the evolving situation. New Zealand is currently in a very fortunate position with no community cases – let alone of new variant types – but we take nothing for granted. That’s why we continue to take action, with very specific steps to further strengthen our response at the air border. Amendments to our Air Border Order include: from 11.59pm on Friday 15 January, travellers arriving on all flights from the UK and US must have had a negative test result for COVID-19 in the 72 hours before their departure from 11.59pm on Friday 15 January, travellers arriving on all flights from the UK and US must have had a negative test result for COVID-19 in the 72 hours before their departure the Director-General of Health is now formally authorised to and will soon expand the pre-departure test requirement to all countries and territories excluding Australia, Antarctica and some Pacific Islands. the Director-General of Health is now formally authorised to and will soon expand the pre-departure test requirement to all countries and territories excluding Australia, Antarctica and some Pacific Islands. New Zealand already has some of the most stringent border protection measures in the world. Today’s amendments further strengthen that position in line with the Government’s overall elimination strategy. Today it was announced that passengers from any destination, excluding Australia, Antarctica and some Pacific Islands, will be required to undergo Day 0/1 testing upon arrival in New Zealand. This expands on measures already in place for passengers from the UK and US. It will be progressively introduced at Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) facilities over three days, starting from Monday 18 January. Routine Day 3 and Day 12 tests will continue. While these new requirements are designed to protect New Zealand, we understand they add to the complexity for people wanting to get here. If you are affected by these requirements, we want to provide as much support and information as possible ahead of your travels. RT-PCR tests, LAMP and viral antigen tests will all be accepted for pre-departure testing. All tests must be processed at a laboratory. A hard copy or electronic copy of the test result from an accredited laboratory will be acceptable documentation of a negative test. Upon arrival in New Zealand you will be required to produce proof of your negative test result to a Customs officer during your passport processing. Either a hard copy or an electronic copy will be accepted. Children under two years (24 months) will be exempt from pre-departure testing. In addition to previously announced medical exemptions, people who can present a medical certificate as a past recovered case of COVID-19 will also be exempt, if they are considered no longer infectious. Passengers transiting through the UK and US for not more than 96 hours before departing for New Zealand will be exempt for now from pre-departure testing. We have also decided that in rare cases, the requirement of a test 72 hours in advance may be extended to 96 hours if a person’s flight has been delayed or cancelled, or test results haven’t been received in time. In this situation, the flight must be rescheduled or rebooked to depart within 24 hours. It’s really important to remember that all travellers, including anyone exempted from the pre-departure testing requirement, will still be required to complete the 14 days mandatory isolation which applies to all new arrivals into New Zealand. MIQs are working hard to accommodate travellers that might be affected by the new testing requirements. Those travellers should work with airlines to rebook flights and contact MIQ for information about their booking. If New Zealanders overseas require consular assistance due to travel disruption, they should contact their nearest embassy or consulate. For more information, visit MIQ.govt.nz We’ll continue to communicate details around the new requirements via covid19.govt.nz and Unite Against COVID-19 social media, the SafeTravel website, and directly to airlines. Extensive consultation with airlines around implementation is ongoing. Under the Order, the primary obligation is on passengers to comply, but airlines are also expected to play a key role in checking documentation where practicable. From 29 January, arriving in New Zealand without evidence of a negative approved test or medical certificate would incur an infringement offence fee or a fine not exceeding $1,000. Learn more about the pre-departure testing requirements
The exception will allow students to return to New Zealand in stages from April 2021. Our top priority continues to be the health, safety and wellbeing of all people in New Zealand. The need to carefully manage our borders is as critical now as at any time in the past nine months. We continue to learn more about the virus and adapt accordingly with stronger and more tailored border protections, depending on risk. Within our safety-first framework, we also have a responsibility to carefully balance our decisions, to support New Zealand’s economic recovery. This border exception delivers on a part of the recovery plan for international education. It underscores the Government’s commitment to the international education sector, which is important in the country’s long-term economic recovery from COVID-19. The students will return to New Zealand in phases, beginning with a cohort of 300 that will be able to return from April, with the remaining students returning throughout the year as MIQ availability allows. The return of these students will not affect the ability of Kiwis to return home and it is balanced against the requirement for skilled workers to enter the country. They will be subject to the same border rules and quarantine regime as all other arrivals – with any additional restrictions depending on where they come from. Returning students will need to book their space through the allocation system and will be billed the standard charges for managed isolation. They also need to be able to do more to support themselves in New Zealand, with the living expenses that are required for international students to be granted a visa now raised to $20,000 – up from $15,000. This system allows providers to welcome back students who have made the greatest commitment to New Zealand, and manage pressure on the MIQ system. The Government remains committed to working with the international education sector to ensure options for the broader return of international students continue to be considered, and that opportunities can be taken as and when it is safe and there is capacity to do so. The annual economic value of this group of 1000 degree-level international students is estimated to be roughly $49 million in wider economic contribution, including approximately $27 million in tuition fees. Border exception details Students with questions about this border exception should contact their providers. The Ministry of Education will continue to work with tertiary education providers to manage this process. To be eligible for this border exception, students must hold, or have held a visa to study in 2020 be studying towards a bachelor’s degree level or above qualification have studied in New Zealand in 2019 or 2020 toward their current qualification be returning to study with their current provider need to be in-country to complete their study. Priority will be given to students who are closest to graduation.
Following confirmation of the Cook Islands’ COVID-19 free status, and the implementation of strict health and border protocols, quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands into New Zealand will resume. Cook Islanders will have quarantine-free entry to New Zealand to enable access to essential services, in the lead up to resuming free movement of people in both directions. This was a joint effort between the Cook Islands and New Zealand Governments to institute this safe travel corridor which will enable essential health, education, economic and social connections for the first time in many months for Cook Islanders. Both countries continue to take a very careful approach to managing our borders and preventing the spread of COVID-19 remains our paramount concern. As such strict protocols will be in place including pre-departure health requirements and separation from other travelers at Auckland International Airport. New Zealand and the Cook Islands are united in our commitment to protect our communities from COVID-19. Today’s announcement does not change the criteria for entry into the Cook Islands which is limited to Cook Islanders and current holders of Cook Islands work and residence permits who meet Cook Islands health entry requirements. These arrangements do not apply to New Zealanders wishing to travel to the Cook Islands. We said we would take a phased approach to resuming two-way travel and will do so only once all safety protocols can be met. Officials of both governments are committed to working towards ensuring all safety protocols and response capabilities are in place for the resumption of two-way quarantine free travel between the two countries within the first quarter of 2021. Read more about quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield --- Section Separator --- Update on COVID-19 cases for 25 January 2021 from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference is at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Minister of Health Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 15 August media conference [PDF, 178 KB] (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 4pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference is at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference is at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the livestream. --- Section Separator --- Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference, held at 1:30pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
Medicines regulator Medsafe will seek advice and recommendations from the Medicines Assessment Advisory Committee (MAAC) next Tuesday, about the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine. The Ministerial expert advisory committee will review Medsafe’s benefit-risk assessment of the pharmaceutical company’s data and, depending on feedback, Medsafe may be able to grant provisional approval as soon as the following day. Medsafe’s process not only ensures New Zealanders can feel confident in the vaccines we receive, it’s also been timely and means we will be ready to receive and administer vaccines as soon as Pfizer is in a position to send them. If granted, the provisional approval will mean that Medsafe has sufficient information and assurance of both safety and effectiveness for it to allow vaccination to start – though there will be continued monitoring of the vaccine here and overseas. However, if Medsafe decides next week that some additional assurances are required before it grants approval, they are making the right decision on behalf of all New Zealanders. It’s vital for New Zealanders to know that Medsafe is undertaking robust assessments of this vaccine and others so that we can be confident they’re safe and effective. It streamlined its approval processes for faster access, but it hasn’t cut any corners along the way. Safety is paramount and we want to be assured of this and also allow all New Zealanders the same opportunity of protection as other countries. We’ve always known a safe and effective vaccine is a vital part of our COVID-19 response for our long-term control of the virus. 2021 is Year of the Vaccine. The COVID-19 vaccines will play a critical role in protecting New Zealanders’ health and wellbeing and, over time, will be a big step back to normality. The first focus will be vaccinating our border and managed isolation and quarantine workforce and their close contacts. Once the vaccine arrives in New Zealand, we expect to be able to complete vaccinating this group within two to three weeks. Our frontline staff have been protecting our country from this global pandemic during the past year and protecting them and those who share their households is a priority. That will be the start of New Zealand’s largest ever vaccination campaign. And that will take some time and the most important thing is when we finish not when we start. However we do intend to get our front line staff vaccinated as soon as possible. Doing so will add another layer to our border defences. We hope to start vaccinating the wider population mid-year.
This information is not the latest available. Read more about pre-departure testing requirements: Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Work is underway to extend the requirement to other long-haul flights to New Zealand, it was confirmed today. The new PCR test requirement, foreshadowed last week, will require travellers from the UK or the US to have a written form, certified by a laboratory or another form of approved evidence, showing a negative result in the 72 hours prior to departure. It will come into force on flights arriving in New Zealand after 11.59pm on 15 January. Work is underway on similar measures for travellers using most other long-haul routes to New Zealand. We expect to be in a position to provide more details within the next week – after we get a more complete picture of testing regimes and capabilities in overseas jurisdictions. A detailed plan to put the new requirement into action in the UK and the US is being developed with airlines and will be widely communicated in time for 15 January via the Immigration NZ website and contact centre, the SafeTravel website and communications directly to airlines so they can contact booked travellers. A very limited number of people may be exempt, including if they have a medical certificate verifying they have been examined within 72 hours before departure, but are unable to undertake a test for medical reasons. Individuals who have previously had COVID-19 and recovered will also require a medical certificate as evidence. Enforcement will be managed by an amendment to New Zealand’s Air Border Order to make arriving in New Zealand without evidence of a negative approved test an infringement offence. We know this will add to the stress of travellers wanting to get to New Zealand and have made this decision carefully. It will provide further assurance for New Zealanders at a time when infections from the virus appear be accelerating overseas. The managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) system remains the bedrock of our border security. The new step is a further precaution to support our goal of making summer unstoppable and is consistent with the overall elimination strategy. The pre-departure test is an additional requirement to the day zero/day one testing and stay in their room in MIQ requirement for arrivals from higher risk countries that came into force last Friday. Travellers from the UK and the US will still have to go through New Zealand’s 14-day quarantine regime. It reduces the risk of infected passengers on international flights infecting other passengers with COVID-19. We intend the test to also have an added benefit of encouraging extra-cautious behaviour before people fly and during flights and layovers that will minimise exposure to COVID-19. The Government is moving at pace to match or exceed the kinds of fast-changing travel requirements in many countries and at transit points for air routes to New Zealand. Most of the main transit hubs for flights from the United Kingdom to New Zealand require passengers to have had a negative test 72 hours prior to departure, and Japan and China have currently stopped all flights from the United Kingdom. It’s important, however, that we put our own safeguards in place. We’re at the end of long-haul flights or chains of flights and any actions we take to further strengthen our border must be based on our own unique set of circumstances. We’re stepping though the options carefully to minimise any overlapping requirements on travellers or airlines. We will announce these additional protections in stages over the coming weeks.
The change will come into force for all flights arriving in New Zealand after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January, to minimise disruption for those travellers with imminent departures. Other countries will be considered for exclusion if their situations change. As signalled last week, given the high rates of infection in many countries, most global air routes are of critical concern for the foreseeable future. New Zealand is currently in a good position with no community cases, but we continue to take action with very specific steps to further strengthen our borders in response to what we’re seeing overseas. The expansion of Day 0/1 testing at Managed Isolation and Quarantine to all passengers to New Zealand – except for those coming from Australia, Antarctica or most Pacific Islands – is now in operation. All travellers are still required to complete 14 days mandatory isolation, including routine Day 3 and Day 12 tests. New Zealand already has some of the most stringent border protection measures in the world. Today’s amendments further strengthen that position in line with the Government’s overall elimination strategy, and more measures can be added as necessary. The primary obligation is on passengers to comply, but airlines are also expected to play a key role in checking documentation where practicable at the start of someone’s journey. We recognise and appreciate the efforts of their staff. Customs staff will check travellers’ arrival cards and inspect test documentation for all arrivals except for those who are exempt. Last week, we specified exemptions and provided information to assist travellers with the new requirements via covid19.govt.nz and Unite Against COVID-19 social media, and directly to airlines. They will apply to all the countries that have been added. It is critical we acknowledge that these new requirements add complexity for people wanting to get here – and ensure support is in place. We thank them for their cooperation, as it’s what’s helping keep New Zealand safe while cases continue to accelerate overseas. So far, after four days of flights arriving with travellers from the US and UK, we are seeing extremely high levels of compliance. It’s great to see people doing the right thing for their fellow passengers, airline staff and the New Zealand public. From 8 February, all passengers arriving in New Zealand except those from exempted countries without evidence of a negative approved test or medical certificate would incur an infringement offence fee or a fine not exceeding $1,000. Countries and territories not included in the expanded pre-departure requirement Antarctica Australia The Cook Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Kiribati Marshall Islands Nauru New Caledonia Niue Palau Samoa Solomon Islands Tokelau Tonga Tuvalu Vanuatu Wallis and Futuna Read more about pre-departure testing requirements
This information is not the latest available. Find out what you should do if you visited a location of interest in Northland or Auckland --- Section Separator --- The positive COVID-19 case recently completed their stay in Auckland managed isolation facility, The Pullman Hotel. After returning 2 negative tests on 2 and 10 January, the case met the requirements for release and returned home to the Northland region on 13 January. --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest for the Northland case and the two Auckland cases are available on the Ministry of Health website. Anyone who visited one of the listed locations during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a COVID-19 ‘casual contact’. Find out more about the locations of interest (external link) Learn more about contract tracing (external link) --- Section Separator --- While the risk is most often very low, if you visited one of the listed locations at the times stated, you need to do the following: Stay at home. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to get a test. Stay at home until you receive a negative test result. If you receive a negative test, keep watching your symptoms for the next 14 days. If you develop any COVID-19 symptoms, get another test. Wash your hands regularly with soap and water, or with hand sanitiser. There is very high demand for tests from people who have not been to locations of interest, are not symptomatic and who are not the priority for testing. If you were not at a location of interest at the stated times and you have no symptoms, you do not need to be tested. If you have symptoms but you did not visit a location of interest, stay home and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Learn more about how to get tested for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Northland health officials are working to provide additional testing in the area. Find a community testing location in Northland (external link) --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand can do their bit by remaining vigilant: Stay home if you're sick with COVID-19 symptoms and get advice about a test. Wash and dry your hands. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. --- Section Separator --- Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. Learn more about the NZ COVID Tracer app
Advice if you're in Auckland Advice if you're in Northland --- Section Separator --- The two former returnees both returned a positive test for COVID-19, however it is yet to be confirmed if they are recent or historic infections.  Further urgent testing is being carried out this evening. The two people are asymptomatic and have already completed their managed isolation and previously returned two negative tests. Both individuals are currently self-isolating at home. As a precaution, Public Health staff are checking details with the individuals about their movements since they left managed isolation to identify close and casual contacts if contact tracing is required.
There are 2 cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation to report in New Zealand since the last media statement yesterday. There have been no new cases in the community to report. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 11-20 of 190 updates 24 Jan 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Jan 2021 To protect New Zealand from COVID-19, pre-departure testing is now extended to all travellers except from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands. 15 Jan 2021 Travellers from the Cook Islands can resume quarantine-free travel into New Zealand from 21 January, enabling access to essential services such as health. 14 Jan 2021 An exception class for 1,000 international tertiary students who began their study in NZ, but were caught offshore when borders closed, has been approved. 12 Jan 2021 The Government is putting in place a suite of additional actions to protect New Zealand from COVID-19, including new emerging variants. 03 Jan 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 03 Jan 2021 Travellers from the United Kingdom and the United States bound for New Zealand will be required to show a negative test result for COVID-19 before departing. 28 Dec 2020 An additional test for COVID-19 will be required for returnees from higher risk countries on their arrival in New Zealand from midnight 31 December 2020. 23 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 21 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 141-150 of 190 updates 27 Aug 2020 The Government has set aside extra funding so we can access a COVID-19 vaccine once it becomes available. 26 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 25 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 151-160 of 190 updates 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change.
Displaying 161-170 of 190 updates 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening.
Displaying 171-180 of 190 updates 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results.
Displaying 181-190 of 190 updates 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 10 Jun 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 21-30 of 190 updates 18 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 18 Dec 2020 The Government has set aside extra funding to support the health system’s COVID-19 response and to maintain quarantine facilities up to June 2022. 17 Dec 2020 Two new vaccines have been secured, enough for every New Zealander. We are now on track to deliver first vaccines to border workers in the 2nd quarter of 2021. 17 Dec 2020 New Zealand is preparing to support our Pacific partners to access safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines at the earliest opportunity. 16 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Dec 2020 The Government’s COVID-19 team, and the national support network, has a resurgence plan in place to manage any community cases over summer. 15 Dec 2020 The Government is putting in place support for affected businesses in case there is a resurgence of COVID-19. 14 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 Dec 2020 The 'Make summer unstoppable’ campaign to keep COVID-19 at bay was launched on 13 December. 11 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 31-40 of 190 updates 11 Dec 2020 Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app to anonymously receive an alert if you’ve been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. 09 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 41-50 of 190 updates 26 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Nov 2020 These places are locations of interest because a person who may have COVID-19 visited them. 24 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Nov 2020 The Government has made an in-principle agreement with Janssen Pharmaceutica to buy up to 5 million COVID-19 vaccine doses. 18 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 51-60 of 190 updates 16 Nov 2020 Masks will need to be worn on all public transport in Auckland and in and out of Auckland and on domestic flights throughout the country from this Thursday. 16 Nov 2020 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 16 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 Nov 2020 New Zealand is still at Alert Level 1. There are no new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 13 Nov 2020 Watch the COVID-19 media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Nov 2020 There are 3 new cases of COVID-19 to report in New Zealand today. 12 Nov 2020 Watch the COVID-19 media conferences with government officials and ministers. 11 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Nov 2020 New Zealand has access to 1.5 million doses of the Pfizer BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, which has received promising results from clinical trials. 10 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents Proactive release --- Section Separator --- This release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations. Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes In addition to the documents released, the Government has made a number of other key pieces of information relating COVID-19 available: Budget 2020 information (external link) Daily updated figures on cases and testing (external link) Daily updates by ministers and officials (external link) Ministry of Health modelling of the health impacts of COVID-19 (external link) Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Treasury COVID-19 information releases (external link) Ministry for Social Development weekly income support and wage subsidy update (external link) Minister of Foreign Affairs’ proactive release on hosting Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) [PDF 5.4 MB] (external link) Draft Report of the Advisory Committee to Oversee the Implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy – September 2020 [PDF, 230 KB] --- Section Separator --- This release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations. --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes --- Section Separator --- In addition to the documents released, the Government has made a number of other key pieces of information relating COVID-19 available: Budget 2020 information (external link) Daily updated figures on cases and testing (external link) Daily updates by ministers and officials (external link) Ministry of Health modelling of the health impacts of COVID-19 (external link) Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Treasury COVID-19 information releases (external link) Ministry for Social Development weekly income support and wage subsidy update (external link) Minister of Foreign Affairs’ proactive release on hosting Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) [PDF 5.4 MB] (external link) Draft Report of the Advisory Committee to Oversee the Implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy – September 2020 [PDF, 230 KB] --- Section Separator --- Proactive release Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Updates and resources Posters --- Section Separator --- Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 85 KB] E whakatenatenahia ana te mau uwhi mata | Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Pae Mataara 1 | Alert Level 1) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 87 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 2) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 115 KB] You must wear a face covering [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] Testing station parking poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 85 KB] E whakatenatenahia ana te mau uwhi mata | Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Pae Mataara 1 | Alert Level 1) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 87 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 2) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 115 KB] You must wear a face covering [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Testing station parking poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Translations Accessible information
Home Updates and resources Social media and newsletters Social media community guidelines --- Section Separator --- We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. --- Section Separator --- We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. --- Section Separator --- Social media community guidelines
Home Updates and resources Unstoppable summer toolkit --- Section Separator --- Everyone wants an endless summer. Those long glorious days that roll into weeks. No one wants it cut short. And to make sure it isn’t, we all need to do our bit. We need to show New Zealand that washing their hands, scanning QR codes, turning on Bluetooth tracing and staying home if they’re sick is the best way to unite and make our summer unstoppable. Warning: video contains flashing images. Please look away if you have a history of photosensitive epilepsy or suffer from migraines. Unstoppable summer: A COVID-19 public service announcement Unstoppable summer: A COVID-19 public service announcement (short version) To help to make summer unstoppable, we have developed a music track featuring Dr Ashley Bloomfield. This video is available to use at events and festivals. If you would like the raw video files, please contact us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz Order collateral to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable. Order collateral to help make summer unstoppable (external link) If you cannot use this form, email us to order. Email Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz If you are running an event this summer it is important that it is as safe as possible for you and your event attendees. To help you play your part, we’ve created an event activation toolkit, as well as a checklist to ensure your event is as safe as possible. Event activation toolkit [PDF, 21 MB] Events checklist [PDF, 7.1 MB] Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] You can add text or images relevant to events, people or places in your region. Make summer unstoppable A3 template — blue [PDF, 1.7 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — red [PDF, 1.4 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 839 KB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 template [PDF, 2.3 MB] [Business or event] for an unstoppable summer A3 template — yellow [PDF, 26 MB] Make business unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 37 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 59 MB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 1.9 MB] Make BBQs unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.6 MB] Make beaches unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 3.6 MB] Make family time unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 9.9 MB] Make music unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 20 MB] Make pool days unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.5 MB] Make waves unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 6 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 117 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 poster — beach [PDF, 6.1 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — photo [PDF, 2.7 MB] Scan QR codes A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — photo [PDF, 3.1 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Stay home if you're sick A3 poster — photo [PDF, 8.1 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — photo [PDF, 7.2 MB] Wash your hands A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] This poster has space in the centre to add your event’s QR code, name and address details. Put your QR code here A3 poster [PDF, 880 KB] Put your QR code here A1 poster [PDF, 2.7 MB] These digital banners are 1600x500 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 346 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 349 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 181 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 175 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 194 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 301 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 319 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 271 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 286 KB] These social media tiles are 1080x1080 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 449 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 453 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 223 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 216 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 244 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 426 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 448 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 349 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 397 KB] Table talker with QR code [PDF, 32 MB] Table talker with no QR code [PDF, 32 MB] You can download our posters and add in your own text or images so they work for you. If you need something else to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable, contact us with your design request. Please include a high resolution image and the relevant specs. We cannot cater to every request but we’ll do our best to provide you with design files. Email your request to Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Everyone wants an endless summer. Those long glorious days that roll into weeks. No one wants it cut short. And to make sure it isn’t, we all need to do our bit. We need to show New Zealand that washing their hands, scanning QR codes, turning on Bluetooth tracing and staying home if they’re sick is the best way to unite and make our summer unstoppable. --- Section Separator --- Warning: video contains flashing images. Please look away if you have a history of photosensitive epilepsy or suffer from migraines. --- Section Separator --- Unstoppable summer: A COVID-19 public service announcement Unstoppable summer: A COVID-19 public service announcement (short version) --- Section Separator --- To help to make summer unstoppable, we have developed a music track featuring Dr Ashley Bloomfield. This video is available to use at events and festivals. If you would like the raw video files, please contact us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Order collateral to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable. Order collateral to help make summer unstoppable (external link) If you cannot use this form, email us to order. Email Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- If you are running an event this summer it is important that it is as safe as possible for you and your event attendees. To help you play your part, we’ve created an event activation toolkit, as well as a checklist to ensure your event is as safe as possible. Event activation toolkit [PDF, 21 MB] Events checklist [PDF, 7.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- You can add text or images relevant to events, people or places in your region. Make summer unstoppable A3 template — blue [PDF, 1.7 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — red [PDF, 1.4 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 839 KB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 template [PDF, 2.3 MB] [Business or event] for an unstoppable summer A3 template — yellow [PDF, 26 MB] Make business unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 37 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 59 MB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 1.9 MB] Make BBQs unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.6 MB] Make beaches unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 3.6 MB] Make family time unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 9.9 MB] Make music unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 20 MB] Make pool days unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.5 MB] Make waves unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 6 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 117 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 poster — beach [PDF, 6.1 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — photo [PDF, 2.7 MB] Scan QR codes A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — photo [PDF, 3.1 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Stay home if you're sick A3 poster — photo [PDF, 8.1 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — photo [PDF, 7.2 MB] Wash your hands A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] This poster has space in the centre to add your event’s QR code, name and address details. Put your QR code here A3 poster [PDF, 880 KB] Put your QR code here A1 poster [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- These digital banners are 1600x500 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 346 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 349 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 181 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 175 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 194 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 301 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 319 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 271 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 286 KB] --- Section Separator --- These social media tiles are 1080x1080 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 449 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 453 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 223 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 216 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 244 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 426 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 448 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 349 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 397 KB] --- Section Separator --- Table talker with QR code [PDF, 32 MB] Table talker with no QR code [PDF, 32 MB] --- Section Separator --- You can download our posters and add in your own text or images so they work for you. If you need something else to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable, contact us with your design request. Please include a high resolution image and the relevant specs. We cannot cater to every request but we’ll do our best to provide you with design files. Email your request to Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Translations Accessible information
