You can get an extra booster dose if you are aged 30 or over or if you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Boosters use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. What you need to know Travel to New Zealand Get a test COVID-19 symptoms How to self-isolate Household Contacts Financial support Wear a face mask Weekly case numbers Close Contacts Long COVID --- Section Separator --- From 1 March the Pfizer bivalent vaccine will replace the existing booster. From 1 April, an additional booster will be available for those eligible. Watch the COVID-19 bivalent vaccine rollout announcement. Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years who are immunocompromised or have multiple or complex health conditions are eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive or negative, you should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT). If you are at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19, you can get COVID-19 antivirals. Find COVID-19 information in accessible formats and different languages. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive or negative, you should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT). If you are at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19, you can get COVID-19 antivirals. Find COVID-19 information in accessible formats and different languages.
Home About this site Contact us Find contact information for Unite against COVID-19 Communications, Te Whatu Ora Health New Zealand. I am looking for... How to order, take and report a RAT Self-isolation rules Antiviral medicines Financial support Household Contacts International travel information Employment advice and assistance --- Section Separator --- For COVID-19 health advice call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. --- Section Separator --- You can find guidance and submit an Official Information Request to the COVID-19 Group on the DPMC website: How to make an Official Information Act request (external link) You can find guidance on how to submit an Official Information Act request to Te Whatu Ora on its website: Official Information Act requests | Te Whatu Ora (external link) Find information and advice translated into different languages: Translations Find information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs: Alternate formats Immigration New Zealand can answer questions about travel eligibility and visa categories. Contact Immigration NZ | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you run or own a business, you can find information on the business.govt website: COVID-19: Information for businesses (external link) Contact us | business.govt.nz (external link) We have a selection of posters available on this website. Download posters All our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, can be viewed and downloaded through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered directly to you, your business or your community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) You will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can send a query through an online form on the Employment website or call them. Online form | employment.govt.nz (external link) Call: 0800 20 90 20 Call 111 immediately. If you have COVID-19, tell them when you ring. You need to contact your care co-ordinator or call Healthline. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19response@health.govt.nz There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 All MIQ facilities are now closed. Isolation and quarantine | Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment (external link) If you have a health concern after your vaccination, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor. You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19vaccine@health.govt.nz Visit the Work and Income website for urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. Work and Income website (external link) (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) In MyMSD you can check your payments, tell MSD about changes and apply for a benefit or NZ Super: Use MyMSD (external link) You can also use the COVID-19 financial support tool on this website to see what support is available to you. Use the financial support tool If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with isolation rules. Report a breach online (external link) Face masks If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements How to report false or misleading information that you see can be found on this website. Report false or misleading information For COVID-19 operational media enquiries, contact the Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand media team: Email: hnzmedia@health.govt.nz For COVID-19 policy media enquiries, contact the Ministry of Health media team: Email: media@health.govt.nz If you have questions or feedback about the app, QR code posters or any problems using them, you will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Call 0800 800 606 You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. If you are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to make a call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in alternate formats, including: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print Audio Braille Audio description. Alternate formats Many government agencies have language support available if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages. Translations --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach --- Section Separator --- You can contact Unite against COVID-19 Communications by using our online form above or by sending us a letter. If you are sending us feedback about our website, Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage you have feedback about. Postal address: Unite against COVID-19 Communications Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand PO Box 793 Wellington New Zealand 6140 Follow Unite against COVID-19 and Te Whatu Ora Health — New Zealand on social media. Social media
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. You might be interested in Children aged 5 to 11 Children 6 months to 4 years Proof of vaccination Using My Covid Record About Novavax Vaccine advice for disabled people COVID-19 vaccine data --- Section Separator --- An additional Pfizer BA.4/5 COVID-19 bivalent booster is now available for people who have completed a primary vaccination course (for most people this is 2 doses). You can get this booster, regardless of how many boosters you have had, if you are: aged 30 and over or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. It will need to be at least 6 months since your last COVID-19 vaccine or a positive COVID-19 test. The 2023 flu vaccine is also now available. You can get your flu and COVID-19 vaccines at the same time. It is recommended that everyone over 6 months old gets an annual flu vaccine. Flu vaccines are free for people who meet certain criteria. You can book through Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity levels high. Booster doses use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. All vaccination mandates have ended. For health and safety, some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated against COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity levels high. Booster doses use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. All vaccination mandates have ended. For health and safety, some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated against COVID-19.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine boosters Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity levels high. Booster doses use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. --- Section Separator --- An additional Pfizer BA.4/5 COVID-19 bivalent booster is now available for people who have completed a primary vaccination course (for most people this is 2 doses). You can get this booster, regardless of how many boosters you have had, if you are: aged 30 and over or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. It will need to be at least 6 months since your last COVID-19 vaccine or a positive COVID-19 test. The 2023 flu vaccine is also now available. You can get your flu and COVID-19 vaccines at the same time. It is recommended that everyone over 6 months old gets an annual flu vaccine. Flu vaccines are free for people who meet certain criteria. You can book through Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course (this is usually 2 doses) of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. For boosters, we use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. This is an updated vaccine targeting Omicron. COVID-19 vaccines are free. The bivalent vaccine produces an immune response against the original virus and Omicron variants. Specifically the BA.4 and BA.5 subvariants. Current evidence indicates the bivalent vaccine is more effective against Omicron subvariants than earlier vaccines. If you do not want the bivalent vaccine, you can ask for the original Pfizer vaccine when you arrive for your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- If you are 30 years of age and over, you can have a booster regardless of the number of boosters you have already had. You can have a booster if: you have had your first 2 COVID-19 vaccinations (your primary course) it has been at least 6 months since you had COVID-19 it has been at least 6 months since you had any other COVID-19 vaccine. Boosters are especially recommended for: all people over 65 years old Māori and Pacific people aged 50 and over people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 people who are living in aged residential care facilities. --- Section Separator --- If you are 16 to 29 years old, you can have 1 booster dose. You can have a booster if: it has been at least 6 months since you had your first 2 COVID-19 vaccinations (your primary course) it has been at least 6 months since you had COVID-19. If you are 16 to 29 years old and at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you can have an extra booster dose. Higher risk groups include: severely immunocompromised people people who live with a disability with significant or complex health needs or multiple comorbidities people with a medical condition that increases the risk of severe COVID-19 illness. --- Section Separator --- Healthy children under 16 years old cannot get a booster. Children aged 12 to 15 who are severely immunocompromised can get a booster if a doctor or healthcare provider recommends this. --- Section Separator --- Children under the age of 12 cannot get a booster. You can talk to your doctor, nurse or healthcare provider about your child's specific circumstances. Children have a good immune response and are much less likely to have a severe illness and need to go to hospital if they get COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- You can check the date of your last vaccination in My Covid Record. Visit My Covid Record (external link) To find out over the phone, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline. You can call between 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. COVID-19 vaccinations, no appointment required | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- When you get a booster it is added to My Covid Record. You can then download another International Travel Vaccination Certificate or vaccination record. Visit My Covid Record (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 The COVID-19 vaccine protects your child, your whānau and your community. It is free and available now for everyone aged 5 and over. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- If children and young people who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Explain that it might hurt for a short time, just like their other childhood immunisations. Tell them there will be a small needle and that they will feel a sharp scratch or sting briefly but then it will be over. They may have a sore arm, fever, headache or feel tired afterwards. It is important to tell them why they are getting vaccinated. Let them know the vaccine will protect them against COVID-19, and protect their family, their grandparents, their community, and other kids at school who may be more at risk from COVID-19 if they catch it. Make sure they know they will need 2 doses. Give them time to ask the vaccinator questions if they have them. Have some games or toys ready so you can distract them during their vaccination and entertain them while you wait for 15 minutes afterwards. Arrange a fun activity or treat to look forward to after the appointment. Tell them that they might feel a bit unwell or a day or two, and arrange to spend some extra time with them if you can. What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB] --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. You can choose the child vaccine (5 to 11) or adult vaccine (12+) from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map | Book My Vaccine (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites will be offering vaccinations to 5 to 11-year-olds. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you --- Section Separator --- If you would like to talk through any questions or worries, you can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link) Information for Pacific Peoples | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccines used in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using for primary doses in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. For children aged 6 months to 4 years, the vaccine is a 3-dose course. It is recommended the second dose is given 3 weeks after the first. Followed by a third dose given at least 8 weeks after the second dose. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) The Pfizer BA.4/5 COVID-19 bivalent vaccine is the main COVID-19 vaccine we use for booster doses. The Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine is an updated version of the original vaccine and has 2 strains of the virus. This is compared to 1 strain of the original vaccine that we use for primary doses. The bivalent vaccine contains equal parts of mRNA, and produces an immune response, for the original strain of COVID-19 and the Omicron variant. Specifically, the Omicron subvariants BA.4 and BA.5. A primary course of the COVID-19 vaccine will use the original vaccine. Boosters will use the updated bivalent vaccine, as Medsafe has only granted provisional approval for its use as a booster. The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 12 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using for primary doses in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. For children aged 6 months to 4 years, the vaccine is a 3-dose course. It is recommended the second dose is given 3 weeks after the first. Followed by a third dose given at least 8 weeks after the second dose. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) The Pfizer BA.4/5 COVID-19 bivalent vaccine is the main COVID-19 vaccine we use for booster doses. The Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine is an updated version of the original vaccine and has 2 strains of the virus. This is compared to 1 strain of the original vaccine that we use for primary doses. The bivalent vaccine contains equal parts of mRNA, and produces an immune response, for the original strain of COVID-19 and the Omicron variant. Specifically, the Omicron subvariants BA.4 and BA.5. A primary course of the COVID-19 vaccine will use the original vaccine. Boosters will use the updated bivalent vaccine, as Medsafe has only granted provisional approval for its use as a booster. --- Section Separator --- The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 12 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. We recommend pregnant people who are eligible get the bivalent booster at any stage of pregnancy or during breastfeeding. It will need to be at least 6 months since you had a COVID-19 vaccine or a positive COVID-19 test. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) Covid 19 vaccines, pregnancy and breastfeeding [PDF, 362 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. We recommend pregnant people who are eligible get the bivalent booster at any stage of pregnancy or during breastfeeding. It will need to be at least 6 months since you had a COVID-19 vaccine or a positive COVID-19 test. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Covid 19 vaccines, pregnancy and breastfeeding [PDF, 362 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine advice for disabled people This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. Children and young people with disabilities can get vaccinated at some accessible sites with their whānau. Learn more about vaccinations for children Young children aged 6 months to 4 years who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 can get a vaccination. Learn more about vaccinations for young children Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course (this is usually 2 doses) of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. For boosters, we use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. This is an updated vaccine targeting Omicron. Learn more about booster doses --- Section Separator --- If you are worried about getting the vaccine, you can talk to a trained advisor in the Healthline disability team. The team is made up of people who have experience of a disability themselves, or who have worked with the disabled community. They will support you, your whānau or someone you care for and answer any questions you may have about: accessibility arrangements and getting mobility assistance at different vaccination centres getting your vaccination safely home vaccinations any effects the vaccine may have on you or your medications. The disability team is available Monday to Friday, from 8am to 8pm. Call: 0800 28 29 26 and push 2 Free text: 8988 Email: accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- If you have decided you want to get the vaccine, it is easy to get vaccinated. You can get your vaccination at: an accessible site your doctor or local pharmacy any other vaccination centre near you. You can also talk to, text or email a trained advisor to discuss whether a home vaccination is right for you. Some vaccination centres are fully accessible. Your family, whānau and support workers are also welcome to get their vaccinations with you. Map of vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand | karawhiua.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can book your vaccination by: calling the COVID Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and pushing '2' to speak to the disability team. The COVID Healthline is open from 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday. using the free text option on 8988 . emailing accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz using Book My Vaccine (external link) . The website is accessible and can be used with a screen reader. The disability team can also help you book an appointment for your tamariki at an accessible site. --- Section Separator --- You can take a support person with you when you get your vaccination. This can be a carer, or someone else you trust. When you get to the vaccination site, you will need to sign in. If you need an NZSL interpreter or information in an accessible format, please ask. When it is your time to get vaccinated, the staff will ask you whether it is okay to give you the vaccine. If you say yes, this is called consent. If you cannot give consent, someone who is allowed to make decisions for you can give consent for you. The vaccinator may also ask you questions about how you are feeling, and what medication you take. It is normal to feel scared or worried. Ask the vaccinator if you have any questions. You will need to wait for 15 minutes after your vaccination. If this is hard for you, ask if you can wait somewhere else. --- Section Separator --- You can choose to get the vaccine. You can say yes or no, or ask for help making your decision. For disabled people or people with an impairment, the journey to get vaccinated may look a little different. For people with a disability or impairment: Read our answers to commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine Read vaccine advice if you have a health condition Talk to your whānau or a trusted support person. Talk to your doctor. Your doctor is the health professional who knows you best. You might want to ask your doctor questions about the COVID-19 vaccine — for example how the vaccine may affect any health problems you have, or if there are any risks for you. If you are supporting someone with a disability to make a decision, it can also help to read our advice on conversations about vaccination: How to talk to friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice If you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people | Ministry of Health (external link) Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. For boosters, we use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. This is an updated vaccine targeting Omicron. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get another booster, regardless of how many boosters you have had. Get your vaccine booster If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine. Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. For boosters, we use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. This is an updated vaccine targeting Omicron. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get another booster, regardless of how many boosters you have had. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get your COVID-19 vaccination Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. What you need to know Children 6 months to 4 years Vaccine side effects Boosters If you have a health condition Child aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The Novavax vaccine is not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines are free. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to previous vaccination and help your immunity be stronger and last longer. The Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine is now the vaccine used for boosters. If you have had COVID-19 and are eligible for a booster, you can get it 6 months after you tested positive. COVID-19 vaccine boosters --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- You will need your booking reference to reschedule or cancel an appointment online. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Cancel or change your booking online | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) Call: 0800 28 29 26
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. --- Section Separator --- Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [BRF, 9 KB] Who can get free COVID-19 healthcare [DOCX, 6.6 MB] Who can get free COVID-19 healthcare [PDF, 1.6 MB] Vaccinations for young children 6 months to 4 years [DOCX, 19 MB] Vaccinations for young children 6 months to 4 years [PDF, 3.8 MB] Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [DOCX, 64 KB] Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [MP3, 4.9 MB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [DOCX, 365 KB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [MP3, 3.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years (external link) Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare (external link) --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Braille --- Section Separator --- Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [BRF, 9 KB] Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [BRF, 6 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 1 KB] Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [BRF, 9 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 4 KB] Isolating at home [BRF, 4 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [BRF, 3 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 4 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [BRF, 9 KB] --- Section Separator --- Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [BRF, 6 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 1 KB] Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [BRF, 9 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 4 KB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [BRF, 4 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 4 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Who can get free COVID-19 healthcare [DOCX, 6.6 MB] Who can get free COVID-19 healthcare [PDF, 1.6 MB] Vaccinations for young children 6 months to 4 years [DOCX, 19 MB] Vaccinations for young children 6 months to 4 years [PDF, 3.8 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 13 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [PDF, 3.2 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Vaccinations for young children 6 months to 4 years [DOCX, 19 MB] Vaccinations for young children 6 months to 4 years [PDF, 3.8 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.2 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] (external link) Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 5.2 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [PDF, 1.3 MB] Who can get free COVID-19 healthcare [DOCX, 6.6 MB] Who can get free COVID-19 healthcare [PDF, 1.6 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 12 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 3 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Who can get free COVID-19 healthcare [DOCX, 6.6 MB] Who can get free COVID-19 healthcare [PDF, 1.6 MB] Vaccinations for young children 6 months to 4 years [DOCX, 19 MB] Vaccinations for young children 6 months to 4 years [PDF, 3.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 13 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [PDF, 3.2 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Vaccinations for young children 6 months to 4 years [DOCX, 19 MB] Vaccinations for young children 6 months to 4 years [PDF, 3.8 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.2 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] (external link) Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 5.2 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [PDF, 1.3 MB] Who can get free COVID-19 healthcare [DOCX, 6.6 MB] Who can get free COVID-19 healthcare [PDF, 1.6 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 12 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 3 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio --- Section Separator --- Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [DOCX, 64 KB] Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [MP3, 4.9 MB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [DOCX, 365 KB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [MP3, 3.8 MB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 544 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [MP3, 2.9 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 35 KB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Wearing a face mask [MP3, 470 KB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 10 MB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [DOCX, 365 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [MP3, 3.8 MB] My Covid Record [DOCX, 371 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 541 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 542 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.6 MB] Isolating at home [DOCX, 40 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 1.7 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 60 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [DOCX, 64 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 1.2 MB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [MP3, 4.9 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 38 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [MP3, 1.9 MB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 386 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [DOCX, 64 KB] Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [MP3, 4.9 MB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [DOCX, 365 KB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [MP3, 3.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 544 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [MP3, 2.9 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 35 KB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Wearing a face mask [MP3, 470 KB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 10 MB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [DOCX, 365 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years [MP3, 3.8 MB] My Covid Record [DOCX, 371 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 541 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 542 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 40 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 1.7 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 60 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [DOCX, 64 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 1.2 MB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare [MP3, 4.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 38 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [MP3, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 386 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years (external link) Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare (external link) The COVID-19 virus and symptoms (external link) COVID-19 Information for parents (external link) COVID-19 variants (external link) Long COVID (external link) Getting the right information (external link) Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? (external link) COVID-19 readiness walkthrough (external link) Wearing a face mask (external link) Getting free face masks (external link) Getting your face mask exemption pass (external link) Be mindful of masks (external link) The Pfizer vaccine (external link) Getting your booster dose (external link) Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose (external link) 3rd Primary Dose for Immunocompromised People (external link) Vaccination medical exemptions (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Keep up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations (external link) My Covid Record (external link) International Travel Vaccination Certificate (external link) COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years (external link) COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years (external link) COVID-19 vaccine side effects for children aged 6 months to 4 years (external link) After your child's Pfizer vaccination (external link) How to get a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to use a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results (external link) What to expect from a PCR test (external link) If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 (external link) What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 (external link) How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form (external link) Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare (external link) Isolating at home (external link) Medicines for treating COVID-19 (external link) Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people (external link) Help while you are self-isolating (external link) Managing your COVID-19 symptoms (external link) After you have had COVID-19 (external link) Travelling to New Zealand (external link) Leaving New Zealand (external link) If you get COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand (external link) Services and support (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years (external link) Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms (external link) COVID-19 Information for parents (external link) COVID-19 variants (external link) Long COVID (external link) Getting the right information (external link) Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? (external link) COVID-19 readiness walkthrough (external link) Wearing a face mask (external link) Getting free face masks (external link) Getting your face mask exemption pass (external link) Be mindful of masks (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine (external link) Getting your booster dose (external link) Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose (external link) 3rd Primary Dose for Immunocompromised People (external link) Vaccination medical exemptions (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Keep up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations (external link) My Covid Record (external link) International Travel Vaccination Certificate (external link) COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years (external link) COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years (external link) COVID-19 vaccine side effects for children aged 6 months to 4 years (external link) After your child's Pfizer vaccination (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to get a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to use a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results (external link) What to expect from a PCR test (external link) If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 (external link) What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 (external link) How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare (external link) Isolating at home (external link) Medicines for treating COVID-19 (external link) Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people (external link) Help while you are self-isolating (external link) Managing your COVID-19 symptoms (external link) After you have had COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand (external link) Leaving New Zealand (external link) If you get COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Services and support (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me mātua noho taratahi koe. Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he ngāwari noa ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakahaere i ēnei i te kāinga. Engari mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana te āwhina mēnā e hiahia ana koe. I muri i tō whakaoranga i te KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua puta i te noho taratahi, tērā ētahi āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, hei whakaarotanga māhau i a koe e whakamātūtū ana. Ka taea e ngā rongoā ārai huaketo KOWHEORI-19 te āwhina i te tangata e noho mōrearea ana ki te tino māuiui koe me te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, tukuna haumarutia ō mōhiohio i runga ipurangi ki Te Manatū Hauora hei whakamōhio i ētahi atu mēnā me whiwhi āwhina atu anō koe, tautoko rānei i a koe e noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mai i te 13 o ngā rā o Pēpuere, me utu pea koe mō ngā toronga ki tōu kaiwhakarato hauora e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me mātua noho taratahi koe. Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he ngāwari noa ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakahaere i ēnei i te kāinga. Engari mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana te āwhina mēnā e hiahia ana koe. I muri i tō whakaoranga i te KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua puta i te noho taratahi, tērā ētahi āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, hei whakaarotanga māhau i a koe e whakamātūtū ana. Ka taea e ngā rongoā ārai huaketo KOWHEORI-19 te āwhina i te tangata e noho mōrearea ana ki te tino māuiui koe me te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, tukuna haumarutia ō mōhiohio i runga ipurangi ki Te Manatū Hauora hei whakamōhio i ētahi atu mēnā me whiwhi āwhina atu anō koe, tautoko rānei i a koe e noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mai i te 13 o ngā rā o Pēpuere, me utu pea koe mō ngā toronga ki tōu kaiwhakarato hauora e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Ngā panonitanga ki ngā āhuatanga māraurau mō te tiaki hauora koreutu mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e whakaraerae ana koe kia taumaha te pānga ōu e te KOWHEORI-19 māu tonu e whiwhi i te tiaki hauora koreutu. Nā te horapa haere o te mate Omicron, ka taea e te nuinga te whakaora ki te kāinga. E pērā ai nā te tini whāioio kua whiwhi i te rongoā āraimate me te awhikiri māori tukupū. Waihoki, nā te āheinga māmā ki te whakamātautau me te noho taratahi, ka taea ai e mātou te aro atu ki te hunga whakaraerae ake. Mēnā he nui ake tō whakaraerae kia taumaha rawa te pānga e KOWHEORI-19 māu tonu e whiwhi i te tiaki hauora koreutu i tōu tākuta. Mā reira, e aukatia ai ngā tāngata e whakaraerae katoa ana kia pāngia kinotia rawatia e te KOWHEORI-19, kei roto ko: ngā tāngata kei a rātou ētahi māuiuitanga e teitei ana te tūraru Ngāi Māori Ngā iwi o Te Moananui-a-Kiwa ētahi tāngata whaikaha ko ērā e 65 ngā tau, neke atu rānei ērā atu anō e māraurau ana ki te whiwhi i ngā rongoā patu huaketo ngā rerenga me ngā kaikimi punanga te hunga kāingakore, te hunga rānei e noho ana i ngā wharenoho tauwhiro ngā tāngata e noho nei i ētahi takiwā kōkēi, taiwhenua hoki kāore i a rātou te āheinga māmā ki ngā ratonga hauora. Ngā māuiuitanga e teitei ana te tūraru Ko wai e māraurau ana ki ngā rongoā patu huaketo Mēnā e māraurau ana koe, ehara i te mea me utu koe mō ngā utu rongoā e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, mō te tiaki hauora rānei hei te pānga tuatahi ōu o te KOWHEORI-19. Ina pāngia mai koe e te KOWHEORI roa, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki ngā toronga anō, me mate koe ki te utu noa mō aua toronga ki tōu tākuta. Kei roto hoki ko ngā utu whakarato whakahau rongoā. Mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe te tiaki ki te hōhipera, he koreutu tonu. Mēnā kei te noho taratahi koe ki te kāinga, me waea atu koe ki Healthline ki 0800 358 5453 mēnā he hiahia tōu ki ngā kupu āwhina mō te whakahaere i ōu tohumate. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakapā atu ki tōu mātanga taka rongoā ā-takiwā, ki tōu kaiwhakarato hauora rānei mēnā me haere ā-tinana koe ki tētahi. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 E wātea ana, he koreutu hoki, ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere (RAT) mō ngā tāngata katoa mai i ngā pokapū e whai wāhi ana. He pēhea te tiki i tētahi RAT He koreutu, e wātea ana hoki ngā rongoā āraimate i ngā kaiwhakarato hauora me ngā kēmihi. Ngā rongoā āraimate KOWHEORI-19 Ko ngā huarahi pai katoa ki te tiaki i a koe anō me ētahi atu ko ēnei: whakamātautauria ina māuiui koe kia tika te whiwhinga mai o āu rongoā āraimate KOWHEORI-19 te mau maruhā. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e whakaraerae ana koe kia taumaha te pānga ōu e te KOWHEORI-19 māu tonu e whiwhi i te tiaki hauora koreutu. Nā te horapa haere o te mate Omicron, ka taea e te nuinga te whakaora ki te kāinga. E pērā ai nā te tini whāioio kua whiwhi i te rongoā āraimate me te awhikiri māori tukupū. Waihoki, nā te āheinga māmā ki te whakamātautau me te noho taratahi, ka taea ai e mātou te aro atu ki te hunga whakaraerae ake. Mēnā he nui ake tō whakaraerae kia taumaha rawa te pānga e KOWHEORI-19 māu tonu e whiwhi i te tiaki hauora koreutu i tōu tākuta. Mā reira, e aukatia ai ngā tāngata e whakaraerae katoa ana kia pāngia kinotia rawatia e te KOWHEORI-19, kei roto ko: ngā tāngata kei a rātou ētahi māuiuitanga e teitei ana te tūraru Ngāi Māori Ngā iwi o Te Moananui-a-Kiwa ētahi tāngata whaikaha ko ērā e 65 ngā tau, neke atu rānei ērā atu anō e māraurau ana ki te whiwhi i ngā rongoā patu huaketo ngā rerenga me ngā kaikimi punanga te hunga kāingakore, te hunga rānei e noho ana i ngā wharenoho tauwhiro ngā tāngata e noho nei i ētahi takiwā kōkēi, taiwhenua hoki kāore i a rātou te āheinga māmā ki ngā ratonga hauora. Ngā māuiuitanga e teitei ana te tūraru Ko wai e māraurau ana ki ngā rongoā patu huaketo Mēnā e māraurau ana koe, ehara i te mea me utu koe mō ngā utu rongoā e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, mō te tiaki hauora rānei hei te pānga tuatahi ōu o te KOWHEORI-19. Ina pāngia mai koe e te KOWHEORI roa, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki ngā toronga anō, me mate koe ki te utu noa mō aua toronga ki tōu tākuta. Kei roto hoki ko ngā utu whakarato whakahau rongoā. Mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe te tiaki ki te hōhipera, he koreutu tonu. Mēnā kei te noho taratahi koe ki te kāinga, me waea atu koe ki Healthline ki 0800 358 5453 mēnā he hiahia tōu ki ngā kupu āwhina mō te whakahaere i ōu tohumate. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakapā atu ki tōu mātanga taka rongoā ā-takiwā, ki tōu kaiwhakarato hauora rānei mēnā me haere ā-tinana koe ki tētahi. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 E wātea ana, he koreutu hoki, ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere (RAT) mō ngā tāngata katoa mai i ngā pokapū e whai wāhi ana. He pēhea te tiki i tētahi RAT He koreutu, e wātea ana hoki ngā rongoā āraimate i ngā kaiwhakarato hauora me ngā kēmihi. Ngā rongoā āraimate KOWHEORI-19 Ko ngā huarahi pai katoa ki te tiaki i a koe anō me ētahi atu ko ēnei: whakamātautauria ina māuiui koe kia tika te whiwhinga mai o āu rongoā āraimate KOWHEORI-19 te mau maruhā. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Haere ki toolkit.covid19.govt.nz (external link) ka whakamahi i te pātene Login/Register ki te hanga pūkete. Whakamahia te āputa rapunga ki te whakauru kupu matua e hāngai ana ki te rauemi e rapu ana koe. He reo Pākehā te pae. Nō reira mēnā e kimi ana koe i ngā rauemi kua whakamāoritia, me rapu mā ngā kupu Pākehā (hei tauira, face coverings, contact tracing, testing, aha atu.) Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tō reo e kitea ai ngā rauemi katoa e wātea ana. Kia mutu tō pato ki te Search ka taea e koe te whakarei ake i ō hua mā ngā tātari takaiho. Kia kitea e koe tāu e hiahia ana, tīkina ake, tiria, tāpiritia rānei ki tō kete mēnā e tīkina ake ana e koe ngā tūemi maha. Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Haere ki toolkit.covid19.govt.nz (external link) ka whakamahi i te pātene Login/Register ki te hanga pūkete. Whakamahia te āputa rapunga ki te whakauru kupu matua e hāngai ana ki te rauemi e rapu ana koe. He reo Pākehā te pae. Nō reira mēnā e kimi ana koe i ngā rauemi kua whakamāoritia, me rapu mā ngā kupu Pākehā (hei tauira, face coverings, contact tracing, testing, aha atu.) Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tō reo e kitea ai ngā rauemi katoa e wātea ana. Kia mutu tō pato ki te Search ka taea e koe te whakarei ake i ō hua mā ngā tātari takaiho. Kia kitea e koe tāu e hiahia ana, tīkina ake, tiria, tāpiritia rānei ki tō kete mēnā e tīkina ake ana e koe ngā tūemi maha. Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) --- Section Separator --- عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau | Testing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau | Testing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Data and statistics available: COVID-19 cases Vaccine data COVID-19 data portal Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 3 April 2023 The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. This includes: current COVID-19 cases case demographics source of COVID-19 cases. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more case data. COVID-19 current cases | Ministry of Health (external link) 220 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 220 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 1,739 New case 7-day rolling average 1,739 New case 7-day rolling average 12,202 New cases reported in the last week 12,202 New cases reported in the last week 171 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) 171 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) --- Section Separator --- You can filter case numbers by health districts, age groups, and first infections and reinfections. COVID-19 data charts | Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 3 April 2023 The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and deaths related to COVID-19. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more data. COVID-19 current cases data | Ministry of Health (external link) 4 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 4 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 2,687 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) 2,687 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 3 April 2023 The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more testing data. Testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) 2,421 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 2,421 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 7,324 PCR tests in the past week 7,324 PCR tests in the past week --- Section Separator --- Last updated 5 April 2023 The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Wednesday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more vaccine data. COVID-19 vaccine data | Ministry of Health (external link) The dataset used to calculate the percentage of people vaccinated changed in August 2022. Find out more on the Te Whatu Ora website: Updated health user information informs COVID-19 vaccination programme | Te Whatu Ora (external link) 73.2% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 73.2% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 89.3% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 89.3% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 270,351 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 270,351 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 156,366 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 156,366 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 2,756,612 Booster first doses 2,756,612 Booster first doses 777,234 Booster second doses 777,234 Booster second doses 72 Infant first dose (age 6 months to 4 years) 72 Infant first dose (age 6 months to 4 years) 41 Infant second dose (age 6 months to 4 years) 41 Infant second dose (age 6 months to 4 years) --- Section Separator --- Check our map to find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | Stats NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- If data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and, for researchers, the ability to request detailed COVID-19 data. COVID-19 data resources | Ministry of Health (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. If you get symptoms with Omicron, you are likely to get them within 3 days of infection. But it could take up to 8 days after infection. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. Some people with COVID-19 can pass it on to others 1 or 2 days before showing symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. For advice, call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you are eligible, you do not need to pay for COVID-19-related medical costs or healthcare when you get COVID-19. If you develop long COVID and need further appointments, you will need to pay for your visits to your doctor as you normally would. This includes prescription dispensing fees. Eligible people include: people with certain high-risk medical conditions Māori Pacific peoples some disabled people those aged 65 and over anyone else that meets the criteria for access to antiviral medicines refugees and asylum seekers people experiencing homelessness or who are in transitional housing people living in certain remote and rural locations who do not have easy access to healthcare services. High-risk medical conditions Who can get antivirals For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: there is no need to take a RAT you should stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you have an underlying health condition or your symptoms are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: your symptoms could be another illness, such as a cold or flu and your symptoms continue, you should repeat a RAT 48 hours later if your result is still negative, stay home until at least 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID Healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Healthy habits include handwashing and wearing a face mask in crowded indoor places. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means if you have COVID-19, you are far less likely to: get very sick need to go to hospital infect other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, this protection can decrease over time. Booster doses reduce the chance of serious illness and lower the risk of spreading COVID-19 to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. If you get symptoms with Omicron, you are likely to get them within 3 days of infection. But it could take up to 8 days after infection. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. Some people with COVID-19 can pass it on to others 1 or 2 days before showing symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. For advice, call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you are eligible, you do not need to pay for COVID-19-related medical costs or healthcare when you get COVID-19. If you develop long COVID and need further appointments, you will need to pay for your visits to your doctor as you normally would. This includes prescription dispensing fees. Eligible people include: people with certain high-risk medical conditions Māori Pacific peoples some disabled people those aged 65 and over anyone else that meets the criteria for access to antiviral medicines refugees and asylum seekers people experiencing homelessness or who are in transitional housing people living in certain remote and rural locations who do not have easy access to healthcare services. High-risk medical conditions Who can get antivirals --- Section Separator --- For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: there is no need to take a RAT you should stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you have an underlying health condition or your symptoms are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: your symptoms could be another illness, such as a cold or flu and your symptoms continue, you should repeat a RAT 48 hours later if your result is still negative, stay home until at least 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Healthy habits include handwashing and wearing a face mask in crowded indoor places. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means if you have COVID-19, you are far less likely to: get very sick need to go to hospital infect other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, this protection can decrease over time. Booster doses reduce the chance of serious illness and lower the risk of spreading COVID-19 to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Infection and immunity Wastewater testing
Home Prepare and stay safe Misinformation, scams and online harm Report false or misleading information If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- We can all help stop the spread of misinformation by reporting fake accounts, or pages and domains that repeatedly post or share misinformation. Most misinformation and disinformation is legal. And people have the right to express their opinion. But if you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: How do I mark a Facebook post as false news? — Facebook.com (external link) Report inappropriate content — YouTube.com (external link) Report a tweet, list or direct message — Twitter.com (external link) Reduce the spread of false information — Instagram.com (external link) Staying safe on Whatsapp — WhatsApp.com (external link) Report a problem — TikTok.com (external link) Report to Netsafe any online harms including bullying and harassment, misinformation and hate speech/extremism. Report harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Misinformation, including leaflets and scams, can also be reported to CERT NZ. Report COVID-19 misinformation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Scammers look for ways to trick people into sharing their personal or financial details. Scams and fraud exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: the COVID-19 vaccine is free you will never be asked to pay for the vaccine or pay to secure your place in the queue we will never ask for your financial details, your bank card details, PIN or banking password official information about the vaccine will come from a trusted provider of health content, such as the Ministry of Health, Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand, Unite against COVID-19, or your local district health provider a health worker will never come to your home to give you the vaccine, unless arranged with you beforehand if you receive an email, phone call, text message, or instant message asking for financial details in regards to the vaccine it will be a scam. Report it to CERT NZ immediately. CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police on 105 . Call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others COVID-19 is in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. Vaccination remains one of the best tools in the fight against COVID-19. Even if you have had COVID-19, getting a booster once enough time has passed gives you another layer of protection from the virus. Being up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations also helps protect people who are more at risk of becoming seriously ill from the virus and people who cannot be vaccinated such as babies and children under 5 years old. You should wait 6 months after testing positive before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- Staying home if you are sick can stop the spread of COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. It is also important to test before visiting people who are at higher risk and to not visit them if you have any symptoms. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. COVID-19 symptoms How to get a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- There are locations where there is a greater risk of infection spreading between people. These include: public transport — buses, trains, indoors on ferries and flights closed indoor spaces with poor ventilation crowded places close-contact settings, for example, if there are face-to-face conversations, shouting or singing. Consider limiting the time you spend indoors with large groups of other people. If you cannot avoid crowds, wear a well-fitting face mask to help protect you. Eat and drink outside when possible. If you are hosting or inviting people into your home: have hand sanitiser available open the windows and doors eat outdoors when possible spend time outside. --- Section Separator --- Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are useful in poorly ventilated indoor areas and when you are in a crowd of people. They stop particles from spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Respirator-type masks such as N95, KN95 or FFP2 masks also help prevent you from breathing in the virus. This is particularly useful when someone has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. You must wear one when visiting healthcare services. Wearing a face mask --- Section Separator --- You are not required to maintain physical distance from others. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people while you are out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 in the community. --- Section Separator --- Good ventilation helps remove COVID-19 virus particles in the air. We encourage you to let in fresh air every day, including after someone visits your home, shop or office. If you can, partly open a window about 5cm for most of the day. Or open windows for at least 15 minutes as often as possible, whenever it is practical to do so. If your windows do not open, check if your ventilation system filters (cleans) the air. Ventilation and COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash or sanitise your hands. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to others people, surfaces or objects. --- Section Separator --- Washing or sanitising your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash your hands often with soap and water for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. Using an alcohol-based hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. The sanitiser needs to be at least 60% alcohol. Make sure you use enough product to cover your hands, rub it in and allow it to dry. You should wash or sanitise your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Either way you clean your hands, it will kill the COVID-19 virus by bursting its protective bubble. Keeping your hands clean also prevents other types of germs and viruses. This is especially important if you are visiting vulnerable people. --- Section Separator --- Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use regular household cleaning products and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to keep a record of where you have been for contact tracing purposes. In case you do test positive for COVID-19, it is still a good idea to: keep track of people you have been with record any high-risk locations you have visited, for example hospitals or aged care facilities keep Bluetooth tracing turned on. We encourage you to not remove the NZ COVID Tracer app from your phone just yet. Bluetooth tracing is still being used to notify people if they have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing The contact tracing system may need to return if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. Keep track of where you have been
Home Testing and isolation COVID-19 testing How to get a COVID-19 test How to get a free RAT or PCR test, where to find a community testing centre or a collection site, and how to report RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. --- Section Separator --- You can get free rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a range of locations, including the usual collection sites, marae and some pharmacies. Where to get a test If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Check the list of COVID-19 symptoms If you live with a person who has COVID-19 or have spent at least 8 hours with them in the same home, you are a Household Contact. We recommend you do a RAT each day for 5 days. Advice for Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Two types of COVID-19 tests are available to the general public in New Zealand. Rapid antigen tests (RATs): RATs are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms or who are Household Contacts. Results take up to 20 minutes. RATs detect all COVID-19 variants. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests: PCRs are used in some situations. Results take 2 to 5 days. PCR tests detect all COVID-19 variants. A health professional can advise you on the right test to take in your situation. How COVID-19 testing works --- Section Separator --- You are allowed to leave your home to get a COVID-19 test while you are self-isolating. You can pick up free RATs for yourself and household members from COVID-19 testing centres and collection sites including some pharmacies. Find a collection centre near you: COVID-19 testing | Healthpoint (external link) You can also pre-order and pick up your RATs from a collection site. Online: Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) By phone: Call 0800 222 478 , choose option 3 Your doctor may offer COVID-19 tests. Call them to find out and follow their advice. --- Section Separator --- There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs). While the instructions are similar for each, make sure to check the instructions in your kit. How to use a RAT --- Section Separator --- Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. R eporting the result means you can get the help you need as early as possible. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- After your test, you must self-isolate until you receive a negative result. You will get your results in a text message from 2328 . It will take 2 to 5 days. If you test positive, the text message will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you have COVID-19
Home Testing and isolation COVID-19 testing Report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Reporting your results mean you can get the help you need as early as possible. Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. Sign up for My Covid Record (external link) 1. Log in | My Covid Record (external link) 2. Under 'Report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result', tap or click 'Report a test result'. 3. Read the information provided. Tap or click 'Continue'. 4. Tap or click 'Myself', enter your mobile number and tick the box if you consent to receiving COVID-19 information. Tap or click 'Continue'. 5. Indicate which lines are visible on your test by selecting 'Yes' or 'No'. 6. Tap or click 'Enter result'. Advice about what to do next will appear. If you have entered the wrong result by mistake, you will have 20 minutes to remove it. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, or need help with My Covid Record, contact the Ministry of Health team. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You can report a RAT result for someone else through your own My Covid Record account. This will allow them to be provided with any support required while isolating. You will need their: full name date of birth NHI number. Log in | My Covid Record (external link) You can report a RAT result over the phone if you are having trouble using My Covid Record, or want to report someone else's RAT result and do not have their NHI. Call: 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 Testing requirements for international travellers --- Section Separator --- Reporting your results mean you can get the help you need as early as possible. Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. Sign up for My Covid Record (external link) 1. Log in | My Covid Record (external link) 2. Under 'Report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result', tap or click 'Report a test result'. 3. Read the information provided. Tap or click 'Continue'. 4. Tap or click 'Myself', enter your mobile number and tick the box if you consent to receiving COVID-19 information. Tap or click 'Continue'. 5. Indicate which lines are visible on your test by selecting 'Yes' or 'No'. 6. Tap or click 'Enter result'. Advice about what to do next will appear. If you have entered the wrong result by mistake, you will have 20 minutes to remove it. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, or need help with My Covid Record, contact the Ministry of Health team. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 --- Section Separator --- You can report a RAT result for someone else through your own My Covid Record account. This will allow them to be provided with any support required while isolating. You will need their: full name date of birth NHI number. Log in | My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can report a RAT result over the phone if you are having trouble using My Covid Record, or want to report someone else's RAT result and do not have their NHI. Call: 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 --- Section Separator --- Testing requirements for international travellers --- Section Separator --- How to get a COVID-19 test How to use a RAT Report your RAT results What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 How COVID-19 testing works
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: there is no need to take a RAT you should stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you have an underlying health condition or your symptoms are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: your symptoms could be another illness, such as a cold or flu and your symptoms continue, you should repeat a RAT 48 hours later if your result is still negative, stay home until at least 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. If you have had COVID-19 within the last 28 days, and someone in your household tests positive, you are not considered to be a Household Contact and you do not need to test. If it has been 29 days or longer since your COVID-19 infection and someone in your household tests positive, then you should test daily for 5 days. Household Contacts Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. You should wait 6 months after testing positive before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. Get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: there is no need to take a RAT you should stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you have an underlying health condition or your symptoms are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: your symptoms could be another illness, such as a cold or flu and your symptoms continue, you should repeat a RAT 48 hours later if your result is still negative, stay home until at least 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. --- Section Separator --- If you have had COVID-19 within the last 28 days, and someone in your household tests positive, you are not considered to be a Household Contact and you do not need to test. If it has been 29 days or longer since your COVID-19 infection and someone in your household tests positive, then you should test daily for 5 days. Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. You should wait 6 months after testing positive before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. Get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate Help when you are self-isolating If you get COVID-19 while travelling After you have had COVID-19 Long COVID
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Use the COVID-19 Health Hub to work out your isolation timeline: Create your isolation timeline (external link) Stay at home — do not go to work, school or any public places. Avoid contact with people in your household. For example, sleep by yourself if you can, and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood. Do not visit any shared exercise facility, such as a swimming pool. You can get deliveries, such as food and medicine from whānau and friends or by ordering supplies online. Identify a safe drop-off point outside the house to leave supplies. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes things you touch often, like door handles, light switches and phones. Do your own laundry. You cannot end your self-isolation early, even if a later test is negative during the 7 days. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. Ventilation and COVID-19 You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are self-isolating: We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] Do not leave the house for any reason, unless it is a permitted reason — such as urgent medical care or exercising. If you cannot work from home during this time, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) may be able to apply for leave support. Do not prepare food for others. Do not share items with people in your household. For example, dishes, toothbrushes and towels. Do not have visitors. This includes tradespeople, unless it is an emergency. If you have a support carer, they can continue to provide essential care. If you are unwell and have symptoms, do not do strenuous, high-impact exercise. Stick to gentle, familiar exercise. Do not get a COVID-19 vaccination until you have recovered. You can leave the place you are self-isolating for the following reasons. You must always wear a mask and maintain physical distance where possible. You can use any type of transport for these permitted reasons, as long as you travel directly as possible and return as soon as possible. You can: have any medical examination and testing required access essential health services for treatment that cannot wait until you finish self-isolation attend any court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or other judicial institution you must attend move to another place of self-isolation to protect your own or another person’s life, health, or safety visit a dying relative who is not expected to live beyond your self-isolation visit the body of a relative before a funeral or tangihanga , if you will not be able to visit the body after your self-isolation provide urgent care to a child, or care or support to a person who is in a critical or terminal condition drive a household member to a medical appointment move to a new place of isolation if it is due to the sale of your house, the end of your rental agreement or by court order. You can exercise outside your home while self-isolating. You can exercise in your neighbourhood, but not using any shared facility, such as a swimming pool or gym. You cannot exercise with other people unless they are part of your household. Be mindful to: keep your distance from others stick to gentle, familiar exercise — do not do anything risky where you may need rescuing carry a face mask — you do not need to wear a face mask, but you may feel more comfortable doing so. If you are away from home or your normal place of residence, you can return home in a private vehicle. If you get COVID-19 while travelling If your employer asks to see proof that you must isolate, you can use your positive result confirmation text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. Recording your positive RAT result is important because you: will get a text message from Te Whatu Ora which you can use as evidence if you need time off work can get support from public health services if you are at higher risk of severe illness will get a second text message when you can leave isolation. The official 2328 or 2648 numbers are text message services used by Te Whatu Ora. They confirm: a person is positive for COVID-19 when their isolation period ends if a person is a Household Contact. The Holiday Act 2003 says an employer can ask an employee for proof of sickness or injury for sick leave taken if it is for 3 or more consecutive days. Text messages from 2328 or 2648 are reliable proof of a person needing to isolate or take time off due to COVID-19. You do not need to ask for a medical certificate. You also do not need a medical certificate for employers to get the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Use the COVID-19 Health Hub to work out your isolation timeline: Create your isolation timeline (external link) Stay at home — do not go to work, school or any public places. Avoid contact with people in your household. For example, sleep by yourself if you can, and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood. Do not visit any shared exercise facility, such as a swimming pool. You can get deliveries, such as food and medicine from whānau and friends or by ordering supplies online. Identify a safe drop-off point outside the house to leave supplies. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes things you touch often, like door handles, light switches and phones. Do your own laundry. You cannot end your self-isolation early, even if a later test is negative during the 7 days. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. Ventilation and COVID-19 You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are self-isolating: We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- Do not leave the house for any reason, unless it is a permitted reason — such as urgent medical care or exercising. If you cannot work from home during this time, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) may be able to apply for leave support. Do not prepare food for others. Do not share items with people in your household. For example, dishes, toothbrushes and towels. Do not have visitors. This includes tradespeople, unless it is an emergency. If you have a support carer, they can continue to provide essential care. If you are unwell and have symptoms, do not do strenuous, high-impact exercise. Stick to gentle, familiar exercise. Do not get a COVID-19 vaccination until you have recovered. --- Section Separator --- You can leave the place you are self-isolating for the following reasons. You must always wear a mask and maintain physical distance where possible. You can use any type of transport for these permitted reasons, as long as you travel directly as possible and return as soon as possible. You can: have any medical examination and testing required access essential health services for treatment that cannot wait until you finish self-isolation attend any court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or other judicial institution you must attend move to another place of self-isolation to protect your own or another person’s life, health, or safety visit a dying relative who is not expected to live beyond your self-isolation visit the body of a relative before a funeral or tangihanga , if you will not be able to visit the body after your self-isolation provide urgent care to a child, or care or support to a person who is in a critical or terminal condition drive a household member to a medical appointment move to a new place of isolation if it is due to the sale of your house, the end of your rental agreement or by court order. You can exercise outside your home while self-isolating. You can exercise in your neighbourhood, but not using any shared facility, such as a swimming pool or gym. You cannot exercise with other people unless they are part of your household. Be mindful to: keep your distance from others stick to gentle, familiar exercise — do not do anything risky where you may need rescuing carry a face mask — you do not need to wear a face mask, but you may feel more comfortable doing so. If you are away from home or your normal place of residence, you can return home in a private vehicle. If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- If your employer asks to see proof that you must isolate, you can use your positive result confirmation text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. Recording your positive RAT result is important because you: will get a text message from Te Whatu Ora which you can use as evidence if you need time off work can get support from public health services if you are at higher risk of severe illness will get a second text message when you can leave isolation. The official 2328 or 2648 numbers are text message services used by Te Whatu Ora. They confirm: a person is positive for COVID-19 when their isolation period ends if a person is a Household Contact. The Holiday Act 2003 says an employer can ask an employee for proof of sickness or injury for sick leave taken if it is for 3 or more consecutive days. Text messages from 2328 or 2648 are reliable proof of a person needing to isolate or take time off due to COVID-19. You do not need to ask for a medical certificate. You also do not need a medical certificate for employers to get the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate Help when you are self-isolating If you get COVID-19 while travelling After you have had COVID-19 Long COVID
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- People with a high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are eligible for treatment with COVID-19 antiviral medicines. These medicines reduce the amount of virus in your body, so you do not get as sick and you are less likely to go to hospital. You can get free antiviral medicines if you: have COVID-19 and symptoms or you are a Household Contact and have symptoms, and became sick within the last 5 days, and are eligible for the medicine. Eligible people include: Māori or Pacific people aged 50 or over everyone aged 65 or over anyone aged 50 or over with fewer than 2 COVID-19 vaccinations anyone with a severely weakened immune system anyone with Down syndrome anyone with sickle cell disease anyone who has previously been in critical high dependency hospital care from COVID-19 anyone with 3 or more high-risk medical conditions. COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat eligible people with COVID-19 at home. You must start taking COVID-19 medicines within the first 5 days of getting symptoms. When taken early in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you stay out of hospital. These medicines are free for eligible people within 5 days of their symptoms starting. Talk to your doctor or nurse by phone to see if getting a prescription is right for you. They will help you work out if you are eligible for COVID-19 medicine. It will depend on several factors, including your age, ethnicity, other health conditions and vaccination status. Many pharmacists will be able to supply COVID-19 antivirals without a prescription if you test positive or are a Household Contact. The pharmacist will check your eligibility. Talk to your pharmacist or a registered nurse either immediately after you test positive or develop symptoms to see if the medicines are right for you. If you are at risk of becoming very unwell with COVID-19 you may be able to get a prescription before you get COVID-19. This means the pharmacist will have the prescription ready to use if you become unwell. If you test positive, you can then arrange to have the medicine delivered by your friends, whānau or the pharmacy. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will confirm that it is still safe for you to take COVID-19 medicines. You will not be able to get the medicine until you test positive for COVID-19. Talk to your doctor or nurse to see if getting a prescription before you get unwell is right for you. Pharmacies supplying antivirals can be found on Healthpoint. You will need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) You will not need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you do not need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days and cannot leave your home. If you are eligible for medicines, arrange to have them delivered by friends, whānau or by other means. Some pharmacies can deliver the medicine. How to self-isolate Some other medicines are available to treat COVID-19 but are only given in hospital. Pharmac, the agency which decides what medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand, has more information on its website. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) If you are severely immunocompromised you may be eligible for Evusheld, however it is no longer recommended. To find out more about Evusheld, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or other health professional. People at higher risk from COVID-19 Eligibility criteria for Evusheld | Pharmac (external link) New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Translations --- Section Separator --- People with a high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are eligible for treatment with COVID-19 antiviral medicines. These medicines reduce the amount of virus in your body, so you do not get as sick and you are less likely to go to hospital. You can get free antiviral medicines if you: have COVID-19 and symptoms or you are a Household Contact and have symptoms, and became sick within the last 5 days, and are eligible for the medicine. Eligible people include: Māori or Pacific people aged 50 or over everyone aged 65 or over anyone aged 50 or over with fewer than 2 COVID-19 vaccinations anyone with a severely weakened immune system anyone with Down syndrome anyone with sickle cell disease anyone who has previously been in critical high dependency hospital care from COVID-19 anyone with 3 or more high-risk medical conditions. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat eligible people with COVID-19 at home. You must start taking COVID-19 medicines within the first 5 days of getting symptoms. When taken early in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you stay out of hospital. These medicines are free for eligible people within 5 days of their symptoms starting. --- Section Separator --- Talk to your doctor or nurse by phone to see if getting a prescription is right for you. They will help you work out if you are eligible for COVID-19 medicine. It will depend on several factors, including your age, ethnicity, other health conditions and vaccination status. Many pharmacists will be able to supply COVID-19 antivirals without a prescription if you test positive or are a Household Contact. The pharmacist will check your eligibility. Talk to your pharmacist or a registered nurse either immediately after you test positive or develop symptoms to see if the medicines are right for you. If you are at risk of becoming very unwell with COVID-19 you may be able to get a prescription before you get COVID-19. This means the pharmacist will have the prescription ready to use if you become unwell. If you test positive, you can then arrange to have the medicine delivered by your friends, whānau or the pharmacy. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will confirm that it is still safe for you to take COVID-19 medicines. You will not be able to get the medicine until you test positive for COVID-19. Talk to your doctor or nurse to see if getting a prescription before you get unwell is right for you. Pharmacies supplying antivirals can be found on Healthpoint. You will need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) You will not need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you do not need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days and cannot leave your home. If you are eligible for medicines, arrange to have them delivered by friends, whānau or by other means. Some pharmacies can deliver the medicine. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- Some other medicines are available to treat COVID-19 but are only given in hospital. Pharmac, the agency which decides what medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand, has more information on its website. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are severely immunocompromised you may be eligible for Evusheld, however it is no longer recommended. To find out more about Evusheld, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or other health professional. People at higher risk from COVID-19 Eligibility criteria for Evusheld | Pharmac (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Translations --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate Help when you are self-isolating If you get COVID-19 while travelling After you have had COVID-19 Long COVID
