All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. From 11:59pm on 18 April, you can travel quarantine-free between Australia and New Zealand. You may be interested in Get the latest updates Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials. A worker at the Grand Millennium managed isolation facility – who is a close contact of the case reported on Thursday – has tested positive for COVID-19. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Wear face coverings on public transport, domestic flights and when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded places. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Our website privacy statement, terms of use, contact details if you would like advice or have feedback, and how to access archives of our website. How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. Access covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Who to contact if you want advice, have questions or want to give us feedback on the website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. Last updated: 23 July 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There’s no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. Last updated: 23 July 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website Last updated: 28 July 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We’ve removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you'll have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) Last updated: 6 October 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Alert Level 2 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. Alert Level 3 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. Information about what measures could be taken at Alert Level 4. Alert Level boundaries help stop the spread of the virus. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Our plan to manage any potential resurgence over summer. The Government has a range of actions including the Alert System, border restrictions and testing. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB]  At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency Likely the disease is not contained. High risk the disease is not contained. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Detailed information about Alert Level 2 The disease is contained in New Zealand. Detailed information about Alert Level 1 Last updated: 15 December 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Travel to New Zealand Staying at home if you’re sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. What to do if you’re sick If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms Getting a COVID-19 test Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings Keep up good handwashing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to continue tracking where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help with contact tracing, if required. You can use the NZ COVID Tracer app on public transport, in workplaces and when visiting businesses and shops. You can also add manual entries for places you've been that do not have a QR code poster. NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Alternatively, you can keep your own diary with details of places you’ve visited, the time you were there and who you were with. How to keep track of where you’ve been Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster to help customers to keep track of where they’ve been. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it’s still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 2, you can go to work and school, but should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 2 there may be some situations where you need to self-isolate or go into a quarantine facility. Who needs to self-isolate or quarantine, and how testing works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy You should keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses are legally required to display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. They legally must also have an alternative contact tracing system. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster At Alert Level 2, you can leave home, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: Physical distancing detailed information At Alert Level 2 the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You: Who needs to wear face coverings You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You should not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Local travel restrictions You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 2 or lower. Regional travel No more than 100 people at social gatherings, including weddings, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. There are specific restrictions at Alert Level 2 depending on the type of gathering: You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, if you can do them safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 Gatherings, events and public facilities Businesses can open, but they legally must follow public health rules. These include physical distancing and record keeping. How to do business at Alert Level 2 You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 Early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are open to all ages. There are some restrictions if a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 is found related to an educational facility. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 2 Last updated: 27 February 2021 at 9:24 pm Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Stay home if you can to avoid any risk of spread. You must work from home unless you're not able to. Children should learn at home if possible. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms If you get a COVID-19 test, you legally must stay home in self-isolation until you receive your results. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy We recommend you keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you're not at work or school. You can expand this to: It’s important to protect your bubble. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and healthy. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they legally must immediately self-isolate from everyone else within the bubble. Do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, extended family and whānau, to enter your home. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: Maintaining physical distancing You: Face covering advice and requirements You can travel within your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Public transport can continue to operate with strict health and safety requirements. Local travel at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3 travel between regions is heavily restricted. Personal travel in and out of an Alert Level 3 area Business travel in and out of an Alert Level 3 area Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for: Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Public venues legally must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area. How to exercise and do recreational activities safely at Alert Level 3  At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff working from home if they can. How to do business at Alert Level 3 Travel across Alert Level 2 and 3 areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. You may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. Business travel in and out of an Alert Level 3 area You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 Where possible we encourage students to learn from home. Schools can safely open but will have limited capacity. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 3 Last updated: 27 February 2021 at 9:23 pm Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand may go into Alert Level 4 if it is likely COVID-19 is not contained, there is sustained and intensive community transmission of cases, and there are widespread outbreaks. We are publishing this information about what could happen at Alert Level 4 so people and businesses can plan for any Alert Level change. At Alert Level 4, it is likely COVID-19 is not contained. At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency We have not repeated the same Alert Level 4 information as last year. This is because any possible future move into Alert Level 4 may look different. If you would like to read our old Alert Level 4 webpage, you can find archived versions of our site and navigate to it from there. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. Last updated: 4 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Alert Level boundaries help stop the spread of the virus. Enter your address or click on the map for New Zealand’s Alert Level boundaries. Refinements to this map are in development. This map is in beta, please provide any feedback via this form (external link) (external link) . Learn more about what measures we need to take for personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings under each Alert Level. Information about Alert Level 1 Information about Alert Level 2 Information about Alert Level 3 Information about Alert Level 4 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you’re concerned that someone is not following the rules you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements Last updated: 13 August 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Auckland joined the rest of New Zealand at Alert Level 1 at midday on Friday 12 March. What we all need to do at Alert Level 1 If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Wear face coverings on public transport, domestic flights and when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded places. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Alert System was introduced by the Government in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The system helps us to stop the spread of COVID-19, with different measures at each Alert Level. About the COVID-19 Alert System Border entry measures are in place to minimise the risk of importing COVID-19 cases. The border is closed, except for New Zealand citizens and residents, and a small number of limited exceptions — such as critical workers. Exemptions are managed by Immigration New Zealand (external link) . Border closures and exceptions (external link) Anyone returning to New Zealand from overseas legally must complete 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine before returning to the community. Arriving back in New Zealand Keeping COVID-19 out means we need to identify any cases if they emerge. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Testing is prioritised for people who are most likely to have COVID-19. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. Other people with COVID-19 symptoms may also be tested. This is to help ensure that we don’t have community transmission in New Zealand. Our approach to testing Last updated: 28 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community.  At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2.  The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm.  Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: Last updated: 12 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. In summer New Zealanders travel around the country, socialise, and go to large events, increasing the possible spread of COVID-19 in the community. During the holidays, this can make any response more challenging — but we’ve got a plan. Our plan outlines how to reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. How we will reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. What you can do to reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases: How we will ready our toolkit. How we would respond if resurgence happens. Community case confirmed and transmission risk assessed. If needed, Ministry of Health COVID-19 Resurgence Plan and National Resurgence Response Plan activated. The location and extent of outbreak risk is assessed. A central government leadership group decides if no further action is required, or monitors the situation, or activates response system. If the response system is activated, a team of central and local government, iwi and community leaders work with local Civil Defence and Emergency Management to manage the outbreak, including: COVID-19 is a tricky virus — we’ve learned a lot from our experience so far, but we all have a part to play in stopping the spread. Our ‘test, trace and isolate’ approach focuses on being able to test lots of people and quickly trace and isolate contacts. We cannot predict where or how a new case might appear in the community, but we’ve done a lot of planning to handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances such as the location or timing, it’s useful to think of 3 scenarios over summer. Keep an eye out for updates on this website and on our Facebook page Unite against COVID-19 Facebook page (external link) Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. Last updated: 16 December 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Advice about what to do if you’re in Auckland region. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A worker at the Grand Millennium managed isolation facility — who is a close contact of the case reported on Thursday — has tested positive for COVID-19. Because the new case has been self-isolating at home since being identified as a close contact late last week, there is considered to be very little additional risk to the community. Case investigations are continuing, and further locations of interest are being confirmed. Locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website (external link)  Locations of interest for the Auckland April border-related cases are available on the Ministry of Health website. For contact tracing purposes, anyone who attended one of the locations listed during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a contact. Out of an abundance of caution, we are asking individuals to follow the instructions in the table if they visited these locations during the relevant times. Locations of interest in Auckland (external link) There are several types of ‘contacts’: The Ministry of Health gives advice to all these types of contacts on what they need to do. Close contacts or close plus contacts are those who are likely to be at a higher risk of being infected. If you have been identified as a close contact or close plus contact of someone with COVID-19, the Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit will contact you. Advice and actions for close contacts or close plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual plus contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact. For casual plus contacts, their contact was where there is higher risk for transmission. In some specific higher-risk situations, the Ministry of Health may contact you if you are a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact or a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) What you need to do depends if you are a close plus contact, close contact, casual plus contact or a casual contact. When you need to get tested if you're a contact (external link) Frontline staff are working hard to ensure everyone who needs to be tested gets a test as soon as possible. Find a community testing centre in the Auckland region (external link) Encourage your employees to stay home if they’re sick and get a test. If a staff member has COVID-like symptoms, they should get tested and stay home until they get a negative result. You can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme to help you pay employees who have been advised to self-isolate and who cannot work from home. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) (external link) The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This payment is also available to self-employed people. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) Learn more about financial support for businesses If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and get advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to keep your distance from other people. Who needs to wear face coverings These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet Auckland Regional Public Health Service translated information and resources about COVID-19 in a range of languages. View translated information about COVID-19 (external link) Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat COVID-19. Only share information from official sources. You can always find accurate and timely information on the Unite Against COVID-19 website www.covid19.govt.nz and the Ministry of Health website www.health.govt.nz (external link) Our social media channels are also updated frequently — follow Unite Against COVID-19 on Facebook www.facebook.com/UniteAgainstCOVID19 (external link) Last updated: 12 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to get your QR code poster, how to operate safely, help finding new employees, and business resources and financial help. Help to find a job, what industries need people, and career advice. Opportunities are available to study, train or begin an apprenticeship. Help is available if you're experiencing financial distress including help for businesses and foreign nationals in NZ. Resources to help your business operate safely — including posters and signs. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. How to get your QR code poster, how to operate safely, help finding new employees, and business resources and financial help. Help people keep track of where they’ve been. Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Information for businesses on how to operate safely at Alert Level 1. How to operate safely and what you need to do at Alert Level 2. How to operate safely and what you need to do at Alert Level 3. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. Help is available to connect employers with people looking for work. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link)  All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages Last updated: 15 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 for the North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for the South Island. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) This guidance does not specifically address the upcoming COVID-19 immunisation programme, but you can sign up to get notified when guidance becomes available. Get updates on the COVID-19 immunisation programme's implications for employment (external link)  Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Last updated: 23 July 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. All people on-site should sign in using either the QR code or an alternative contact tracing system. This includes employees, customers and other visitors. Make sure it’s done every day, including weekends and after hours. People who sign in with the NZ COVID Tracer app don’t need to use an alternative system. All workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This applies at all Alert Levels. Get your QR code poster  At Alert Level 2 and higher, you legally must have an alternative system for people who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. You may be contacted if your business is a potential contact. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need to record people who work on the premises. You do not need an alternative system at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. There are different systems and processes you can use to keep a record, like: We recommend that records include the person’s name, phone number, and the date and time they enter. Whatever you use, it’s important that everyone’s personal details are collected, kept and used in a way that protects their privacy. Previous visitors’ records should not be visible to other visitors. Unsecured personal information exposes people to unwelcome contact, fraud or even identity theft. It’s also a breach of the Privacy Act. Keep these records for at least 30 days. You should only collect information if it’s necessary for contact tracing. The purpose of the collection is to help the Ministry of Health to contact a person in the event of a suspected or confirmed case of COVID-19. It’s unnecessary to collect other personal information like identity verification documents or number plates. You should only ask for name, phone number and the date and time of visit. When collecting this information, tell people that it’s being collected to support contact tracing. It’s your responsibility to store any private information securely, and it can only be used for COVID-19 contact tracing. For example, you should not automatically add people’s emails to your contact database without their consent. We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. For example: This information is being collected to assist in the management of COVID-19. It will be given to the Ministry of Health and/or the District Health Board on request if it is required for contact tracing purposes. We will not use it for any other purpose, and will destroy it after 30 days. It will be kept here at [name of the establishment]. You have a right to access and correct any information we hold about you. You can use these templates as your alternative system. Print whichever template suits your workplace best — you can use both if you wish. A page of individual ballot entries that visitors can fill out and put in a ballot box. You’ll need to cut out each entry for visitors to write on, and have your own ballot box to put them in. Information about how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases: How contact tracing works Last updated: 30 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Employers have an important role to support employees and customers to follow public health guidelines. Support New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19 by ensuring that: Use the business checklist to tick off actions so your business can make summer unstoppable. Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must still display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code at Alert Level 1. Help your customers get back into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we'll be. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Contact tracing at your workplace If your employees are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms it is important they stay home and get health advice. Ask them to stay home and encourage them to call: If they do get a test, they should self-isolate until they get a negative result. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you’re eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) You should not knowingly allow your staff to come to work if they have COVID-19 or are required to self-isolate under public health guidelines. If you do, you are likely to be in breach of your duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. Set up flexible work arrangements so employees can work from home if they need to. If they cannot work from home, your business may be eligible for financial support through the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Keep up good hygiene practices by encouraging your employees to: How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. If your workplace can support physical distancing, we encourage you to do so. This could include: You should discuss any changes with your employees first. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link)  Last updated: 3 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Businesses and workplaces legally must operate safely. This means: Business premises can open for staff and customers provided they meet public health requirements. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example their home. Close-contact services can operate if they meet public health measures including robust record keeping, good hygiene practices and minimise contact to the extent possible. If a workplace cannot meet these measures it cannot open its physical premises. All businesses are encouraged to use alternative ways of working if possible. If workers have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend they stay home. At Alert Level 2, businesses can have customers on their premises. Retail businesses, including malls, markets and takeaway shops legally must: There is no maximum number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. Public facilities include: All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. Event facilities include: All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars legally must: While we recommend each table having a single server, each server can cover multiple tables. People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: Advice for eating out and getting takeaways safely Advice for going out to a bar or night club A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place like: To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses, workplaces and public transport operators legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other collateral Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) Last updated: 27 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Under Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff work from home if they can. We recommend businesses self-assess their ability to meet these restrictions and operate safely, just as they would normally to meet their duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. Government agencies will not make these decisions for businesses. More information on operating a business at Alert Level 3 (external link) If your business requires close physical contact it can’t operate. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Retail is possible through delivery and non-contact collection of goods and prepared food at the door (including the doors of businesses located inside malls). Customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. We recommend delivery or pick-up should also be contactless. For retailers, manufacturers and the service industries, if you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you do not need it now. Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations can operate under Alert Level 3. Any business providing necessities should minimise, or eliminate if possible, physical interactions among staff and with and between customers ensure appropriate health, hygiene and safety measures are in place. For example, dairies and petrol stations can remain open at all Alert Levels, if they can operate safely. At Alert Level 3, prepared food and drink can be bought and sold, but we recommend not allowing customers consuming these onsite. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Retail is possible through delivery and non-contact collection of goods and prepared food at the door (including the doors of businesses located inside malls). Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: During Alert Level 3, most work can be carried out in the building and construction sector. All goods can be delivered, including food. We recommend the delivery be contactless. Alcohol can be delivered if the business has an off-licence. You can provide certain services in home, provided physical distancing and other public health guidance is observed. However, we recommend not having house cleaning. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses, workplaces and public transport operators legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other collateral Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) Last updated: 27 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster. You should also encourage everyone who enters your premise to scan the QR code with the NZ COVID Tracer app. There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your locations. The form will ask you for your NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code: you do not need these if you're creating a QR code for personal reasons. You'll need: Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of locations or do not have a New Zealand driver licence, use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. Use this template if you do not have a New Zealand driver licence or you have a large number of locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) If you would like to be sent your QR code poster again so you can print more copies, email the NZ COVID Tracer support team at help@covidtracer.min.health.nz If you have the email address that the poster was sent to, and/or the business or service name printed on the poster, that will help the team find it for you. All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This legal requirement applies at Alert Level 1 and higher. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. Each location legally must display their poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they've been. This includes buses, trains, aircraft, ferries and ride-share vehicles. QR codes are not mandatory for public transport services that have ticketing processes that collect contact information for every passenger. Depending on the operator, this could be airlines and inter-city buses. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a QR code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. While displaying a QR code is not mandatory in these situations, we still encourage community organisations to display a QR code. This includes: Clubs that operate under section 21 of the Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012 must still display a QR code. You can also print off QR codes for private events such as social gatherings at your home. This is not mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. You need to display your QR code poster at all Alert Levels. Display the poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You can also place some posters inside, especially where people walk past without creating an obstacle. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. We recommend you: Do not: If you need help generating your QR code posters or have questions about NZ COVID Tracer: How to download NZ COVID Tracer app To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. How contact tracing works Last updated: 12 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you need help hiring new employees, Work and Income can help. You can advertise jobs for free and easily access work-ready people who are wanting to work. Whether you’re a small, medium or large business, or looking to recruit locally or nationally, Work and Income can connect you with candidates who have skills to suit all kinds of jobs. List your job vacancies for free or talk to them about tailoring a recruitment plan to meet the needs of your business. Advertise your job vacancies for free (external link) Information about Work and Income’s recruitment services (external link) Many initiatives are underway to connect employers in a range of in-demand industries with people looking for work. More information on in-demand industries The Mana in Mahi programme provides young people with on-the-job training so they get paid while working towards an industry qualification. Businesses can receive funding and support to recruit, train and retain employees. To take part in the Mana in Mahi programme, your business will need to: To apply, contact Work and Income on 0800 778 008 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) He Poutama Rangatahi supports rangatahi aged 15 to 24 to connect with employers and get into long-term employment. To be eligible, your business will need to do the following: Find out more about He Poutama Rangatahi on the Provincial Growth Fund website (external link) The Cadetships programme supports employers to develop, mentor, train and grow full-time permanent Māori staff to take on more senior roles within an organisation. Your business could receive up to $10,000 to help develop a cadet for at least 6 months in a permanent role. To apply, your business will need to meet 1 of these requirements: Find out more about the Cadetships programme on the Te Puni Kokiri website (external link)  Last updated: 16 August 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Help is available if you're experiencing financial distress including help for businesses and foreign nationals in NZ. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who cannot return home and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support. Information to help you access or pay for accommodation. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Funding is available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: Apply for funding by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link)  Advice is available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) The Community Capability and Resilience Fund (CCRF) is available to community groups for initiatives that support the rebuild and recovery from COVID-19. The CCRF builds on the success of the Community Awareness and Preparedness Grant Fund (CAP Fund), which provided immediate support to communities during the COVID-19 lockdown. The fund will be targeted towards initiatives that support priority groups, which include: More information, including the application form, is available on the Ministry of Social Development website. Community Capability and Resilience Fund (external link) Last updated: 30 October 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Last updated: 3 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be in place if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. Wage subsidies support employers and self-employed people to keep paying employees and protect jobs affected by Alert Level changes. Applications for the Wage Subsidy March 2021 closed on 21 March 2021. It helped employers to continue to pay employees and protect jobs for businesses affected by the rise in Alert Levels on 28 February 2021. Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps businesses directly affected when there’s an increase to Alert Level 2 or higher for a week or more. It helps to cover wages and fixed costs. Businesses can apply through myIR for support due to the 28 February Alert Level increase. It is available to all eligible businesses and organisations in New Zealand. The final day for applications is 12 April 2021. Businesses can no longer apply for support due to the 14 February Alert Level increase. To be eligible for the payment, your business must have experienced at least a 30% drop in revenue or capital-raising ability over a 7 day period after the increased Alert Level, and meet other criteria. Eligible businesses can apply to receive the lesser of: Businesses and organisations can apply for the payment each time it is activated, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria. Applications are open for 1 month after the return to Alert Level 1. Find out if your business is eligible, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses and self-employed people to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This includes employees on casual contracts. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. You can apply for it once for each eligible employee in any 30-day period. However, you can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells them to get another test. Your business should encourage employees to call Healthline or talk to their doctor if they are unwell. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons and cannot work from home. If your employees have been advised to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme.  Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If your employees need to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment is available. Your small or medium-sized business may be eligible for a Business Finance Guarantee Scheme loan. These loans can support operating cashflow and capital assets and projects related to, responding to or for recovering from the impacts of COVID-19. Participating lenders can provide to eligible businesses: Participating banks and non-banks, for example building societies, can lend outside of their normal lending criteria. If you borrow from a bank, you could borrow up to $5 million for a term of up to 5 years. If you borrow from a non-bank, you could borrow up to $3 million for a term of up to 5 years. The scheme is supported by the Government, which takes up to 80% of the scheme loan’s default risk. No personal guarantee is required. Participating banks and non-banks make all lending decisions. You must still pay the loan back, with interest, as you would usually. Find out if your business is eligible, and how to apply (external link) Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) If commercial tenants and landlords of small-to-medium businesses have not been able to agree about rent arrangements during a lockdown period (Alert Levels 3 and 4), they can use the COVID-19 commercial lease dispute services to try to reach an agreement acceptable to both parties. The services are arbitration and mediation services to resolve commercial lease disputes due to COVID-19. Arbitration services will be subsidised up to $6,000 for each dispute. Mediation services will be fully funded, up to a value of $4,000 for each dispute. These services are available until 31 March 2021. Check if you’re eligible for these services, and apply through the Ministry of Justice (external link) Support will be available to employers of first-year and second-year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost initiative, and how to apply (external link) Last updated: 24 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) Wage subsidies will be available if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. They support workers who are financially impacted by COVID-19. Applications for the Wage Subsidy March 2021 closed on 21 March 2021. It helped employers to continue to pay employees and protect jobs for businesses affected by the rise in Alert Levels on 28 February 2021. (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment.  As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) You could apply for the COVID-19 Income Relief Payment before 14 November 2020. It was to help you if you lost your job from 1 March 2020 to 30 October 2020 due to COVID-19. More information about the Income Relief Payment (external link) If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There was a freeze on rent increases which meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants at the Tenancy Services website (external link) New Zealand’s retail banks are able to defer repayments for some mortgages until 31 March 2021. This applies to: You have to be financially affected by COVID-19. These loans will not be viewed as being defaulted. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you may be able to defer principal and interest payments on your loan. Banks and customers have flexibility over the term of any deferral. However, the Reserve Bank’s  concessionary loan guidance will expire on 31 March 2021. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. Interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess each customer that asks for a deferral. The Reserve Bank’s guidance is that lenders should only approve a deferral if: Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) Support is available for anyone who is a Close and Casual contact of a COVID-19 case. Work and Income provides a range of financial support to help workers affected by COVID-19 as Alert Levels change. Find out how Work and Income may be able to help you, even if you’re working. Download a PDF for information about support for Close and Casual Contacts of a COVID-19 case [PDF, 485 KB] Last updated: 24 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you have a temporary visa and cannot support yourself or return home due to COVID-19, you may be able to get an Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help with your basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You may be able to get the Emergency Benefit if you: You can apply for the Emergency Benefit until 31 August 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) Last updated: 1 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Help to find a job, what industries need people, and career advice. Advice on how to search for jobs and how to advertise jobs if you’re an employer. Information on the jobs available in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Practical advice to help you look for a new job or retrain. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Careers.govt.nz has practical, useful advice if your job has been impacted by COVID-19. Careers.govt.nz can help with: Careers.govt.nz has tools and resources to help kick-start your career or to help you consider study or retraining options if you have been impacted by COVID-19: Know Your CV — Careers.govt.nz (external link) You can find detailed information about jobs you may be interested in, including what the job involves, salary expectations, job opportunities and length of training required. Search for jobs you may be interested in (external link) Careers.govt.nz also has a list of job vacancy and recruitment websites that have roles across a range of industries, so you can find your next challenge. List of job vacancy and recruitment website (external link) To talk to someone at Careers.govt.nz, call 0800 601 301 from 8:30am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. They can help you with: You can also talk to someone online. Chat online about your career options (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 8 June 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Many people's circumstances have changed due to COVID-19. If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, now is a good time to look for a new challenge. Many industries need people to keep New Zealand moving. If you are looking for work, you can create a job finder profile on the Keep New Zealand Working website. This site can connect you to businesses that need work-ready people to help support New Zealand through COVID-19. Create a job finder profile (external link) You can search from a range of available jobs across the country from the Keep New Zealand Working website. Search job vacancies (external link) If you need help hiring additional staff, you can advertise jobs for free to access work-ready people easily. Advertise jobs for free (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) There are many jobs available at the moment in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Information about in-demand industries Last updated: 23 July 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are many roles involved in producing New Zealand’s food and fibre, which are essential to helping New Zealand through the recovery. These include: There are many opportunities to join the sector. In the next 5 years we need 50,000 people with a diverse range of interests, experiences and backgrounds. Opportunities range from seasonal jobs through to long-term careers. GrowingNZ can help with career advice in the sector. It also lists available roles across New Zealand. GrowingNZ career advice (external link) New Zealand is a large provider of fruit and vegetables to the world. This is what the horticulture sector supplies. New Zealand horticulture leads the way in healthy, sustainable food production — developing technology, growing and harvesting food, designing new products and selling them to the world. The GoHort website can help you work out if a career in horticulture is right for you. It has information about careers in the science, business and technology sectors as well as working on an orchard. The GoHort JobBoard showcases the career opportunities currently available in the horticultural sector. You can list a job if you are an employer and find a job if you are looking for a new role. GoHort JobBoard (external link) Right now the dairy sector needs motivated and passionate people to work on dairy farms. There are many roles and career pathways with self-employed options available. Many of your existing skills may be transferable to a dairy farming role. Dairy sector opportunities include working: You can find out which dairy sector careers, including on-farm roles, would best suit your skills and experience on the Go Dairy website. Go Dairy (external link) Free training is available for people who have lost their jobs due to COVID-19. The 3 week course includes 1 week online and 2 practical weeks. Free Farm Ready Training (external link) Forestry roles involve much more than growing and harvesting plantation forests. Careers include: There are opportunities to suit your needs, from long-term positions to seasonal work. Forestry Careers NZ has a range of information on the roles available in the industry, career expectations, and skills and qualifications needed. Forestry Careers NZ (external link) Last updated: 30 June 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Fees-free vocational education and training is available through the Targeted Training and Apprenticeships Fund. There is no need to apply as fees are paid directly to providers by the Tertiary Education Commission. Funding is available for vocational programmes in targeted industries and for apprenticeships in all industries. Starting from 1 July, the vocational programmes initially funded are in the following areas: Find the list of supported training on the Tertiary Education Commission website (external link) Fees will be covered from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2022. If you started a course earlier in the year, you may be eligible for a partial refund if your course continues past 1 July 2020. Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Contact Connected to get help to choose the education or training you need if you're starting your work journey or looking to retrain. Call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) The Mana in Mahi programme can kick start your career, giving you on-the-job training so you get paid while working towards an industry qualification. You can also receive support getting the things you need to get started like clothes and tools. To apply, you can contact Work and Income on 0800 779 009 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) The Hardship Fund is available for students facing financial difficulty, including as a result of COVID-19. You can receive grants to cover certain costs, and loans if you are waiting on money from things like scholarship payments, research grants, international bank transfers, etc. The Hardship Fund can help with a range of issues, including: To apply, contact your tertiary education provider. Find out more about the Hardship Fund on the Tertiary Education Commission’s website (external link) There is renewed support for tertiary education learners whose training or education has been disrupted. Applications have re-opened for the Technology Access Fund for Learners following recent changes in COVID-19 Alert Levels. The fund is managed by the Tertiary Education Commission. The fund aims to help tertiary education organisations support learners to continue to access tertiary education and training disrupted by COVID-19. More information about the fund and how tertiary education organisations can apply (external link) Last updated: 7 July 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Bula vinaka, fakaalofa lahi atu, fakatalofa atu, kia orana, ko na mauri, malo e lelei, mālō nī, noa’ia, talofa lava, tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. The latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. This summer will be our first under COVID-19 conditions. It’s important we look after ourselves and our whānau over the festive season and summer holidays. Advice about gatherings, events, public facilities and other types of gatherings. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Advice for religious communities including providing last rites, funerals, and advice for Muslim communities. How you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. You can get takeaways at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. You can go to cafes, restaurants and bars at Alert Levels 1 and 2. How to stay safe when going out to bars and night clubs. Advice for renters and homeowners, and guidance about waste collection and animal welfare. How to shop safely, access goods and services, get essential supplies, and how to eat out and about safely. Advice on education, shared custody, online safety and visiting whānau in aged residential care. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 1, bars and night clubs can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Bars and night clubs legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Use the business checklist to tick off actions so your business can make summer unstoppable. Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses Bars and night clubs can open at Alert Level 2, with 100 people per defined space. 1 metre physical distancing is required, except for friends and whānau. Tables will be 1 metre away from other groups. Bars and night clubs have been shown to be places where COVID-19 can spread easily, so it’s important to follow the requirements, even when you’ve had a few drinks. You should not go to a bar or night club if you: If you go to a bar or night club, follow the 3 S’s: Stay seated at your table unless using the bathroom, paying or departing. This means no dancefloors or standing around tables. Your table will be set up at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Make sure you keep 1 metre physical distance throughout the night from other groups and people you don’t know. Each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Make all your orders through your server and do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. You can play pool and use gaming machines provided they are 1 metre apart from each other. You can not eat or drink while playing pool. When playing, make sure you keep 1 metre apart from other groups. We recommend you sign in to a bar or night club with either: A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link)  Last updated: 3 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants and bars can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants and bars can open and have customers on their premises. They legally must meet requirements to keep their customers safe. Delivery, drive-through or contactless pick-up may still be available. The 3 S's will be in place if you're dining in. Advice for going out to a bar or night club You can order and collect food from the counter in cafes or fast food restaurants that do not hold an on-licence or club licence. If you’re dining in, once you have ordered or collected your food, you must return to your seat. You must stay seated unless you’re using the bathroom or paying for your meal. On-licensed and club-licensed premises must continue to adhere to the 3 S's at all times, with a requirement to use table service. Food businesses can open at Alert Level 3, but only for takeaway, delivery or drive through. If you are picking up food in person, make sure you do this as safely as possible. You won't be allowed to enter the store, and need to maintain a 2 metre distance from others. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. Do not go out to get takeaways if you're sick with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick food up or get it delivered. Last updated: 23 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Do not go to any gatherings or attend public events if you: There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a social gathering or event or enter a public facility at Alert Level 1. If you’re travelling from an Alert Level 2 region to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings or events, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can also print off QR codes for private events like social gatherings at your home. This isn’t mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. Get your QR code poster Use the events checklist to tick off actions to make summer unstoppable. Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] Social gatherings can go ahead at Alert Level 2 with up to 100 people in a defined space. You can have guests over to your home, but the 100 person limit applies. This includes people who usually live in your house. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the 100 person limit. Social gatherings include: Funeral and tangihanga requirements Religious community advice Play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. The person organising the gathering legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. At a social gathering you do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. If you have hired a venue just for a gathering then the rules on gatherings apply. If you’re a business or service, then the rules for businesses and hospitality apply. For example, eating dinner with friends at a restaurant. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: Public facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. If you go to a public facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Public facilities include: We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. How to do business safely at Alert Level 2 Event facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. If you go to an event facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Event facilities include: We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for: Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Religious communities at Alert Level 3 The person organising the wedding, funeral or tangihanga legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. Public venues legally must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. If you believe you have observed behaviour that's not appropriate, and you're certain the individuals concerned are not following Alert Level requirements, you can report it. Report a breach online Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link)  Last updated: 27 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You might be interested in: Tāmaki Makaurau is at Alert Level 1 along with the rest of Aotearoa. Maintaining our tikanga hauora and adhering to our relevant Alert Levels will help break any potential chains of transmission and prevent the spread of  COVID-19. Learn more about Alert Level 1 At Alert Level 2 whānau and friends can connect, but restrictions are still in place to manage the risk and spread of COVID-19. The general guidance for no physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place — for those who don’t live together and aren’t whānau or close friends. These guidelines were developed to clarify public health measures and support marae to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their whānau, hapū, and iwi . We acknowledge that many iwi have already put together COVID-19 response plans for their hapū and marae. Marae should contact their tribal authority in the first instance if they have further questions. Guidance for marae   Iwi, hapū and Māori organisations have led decision-making in our communities to support and ensure whānau are safe and protected from any risk of COVID-19 transmission. This has included adjusting tikanga and cultural practices such as suspending harirū and hongi, kissing and hugging to maintain physical distance, and using tools such as video conferencing to support hui, tangihanga and wānanga.  If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Wear face coverings on public transport, domestic flights and when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded places. Last updated: 8 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, contact a GP or Nurse Practitioner, Māori health provider or freephone Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or 0800 611 116 to get tested for COVID-19. Keep communal areas and frequently touched surfaces clean, such as paepae, areas where kai is prepared and served, bathrooms, tables, chairs and door handles. Make sure handwashing facilities are available and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If people can not maintain physical distance from those they do not know, we encourage wearing a face covering. Wash your hands Clean surfaces Marae should be prepared for changes in Alert Levels. We recommend having a plan in place for how the marae can operate and keep whānau safe during Alert Levels 4, 3 or 2. There are no restrictions on gatherings at marae at Alert Level 1. Hui, tangihanga, hura kōhatu, huringa tau and other gatherings can go ahead. It’s important to stay vigilant, even at Alert Level 1. Kia mataara tātou. Continue to provide appropriate hand washing facilities and make sure attendees keep up good hand washing practices. Keep frequently touched surfaces and objects clean, and make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold or flu symptoms, contact a GP, Māori health provider or freephone Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or 0800 611 116 to get tested for COVID-19. We recommend the organiser of a gathering at a marae record attendees. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer App for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer App QR code poster Marae can open and hold gatherings at Alert Level 2, with up to 100 people in a defined space. A marae can have multiple defined spaces of 100 people, provided there is no contact between them in or around the marae. If marae cannot operate safely at Alert Level 2 they may choose to close. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet Alert Level 2 restrictions. Requirements for tangihangi at Alert Level 2 Requirements for gatherings and events At all gatherings, keep each other safe by maintaining physical distancing of 1 metre. This means using greetings that don’t require physical contact, instead of hongi, harirū, kissing or hugging, with people you don’t live with or who are outside your whānau. How to maintain physical distance Before any gathering, clean all surfaces where kai will be prepared and served including benches, tables and chairs. Use disinfectant and if surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first before disinfecting. Serve kai on plates in individual portions for each person. Do not serve food buffet-style or on a shared table. Make sure people do not share food or drinks, cups, plates or cutlery. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae will need to implement a Health and Safety plan and other measures. The Health and Safety plan must be displayed and communicated to all attendees. Contact your local hauora or Māori health provider for help with health and safety. Marae can take bookings for events such as conferences or business meetings at Alert Level 2. If a business or service hires a marae for an event, Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses apply. Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses If food is served by the marae for any event, hospitality requirements apply. Hospitality requirements at Alert Level 2   A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, people can not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Last updated: 8 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Advice for renters and homeowners, and guidance about waste collection and animal welfare. Information about collection of household waste. Information about animal welfare and accessing veterinary services. Information such as rent increase freezes, moving house and maintenance guidance. Information such as mortgage payment deferrals, moving house, home maintenance, and buying or selling a property. Information to help you access or pay for accommodation. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you’re concerned about an animal’s welfare call the Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) on 0800 008 333 . If your animals need treatment, contact your own veterinary clinic. If you do not have a regular veterinarian, or yours is not open, you can find nearby clinics on Find-a-Vet. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) If you're self-isolating, you must contact your veterinarian before visiting them or they visit you including for production animals. This applies even if your animal is being presented by someone else. There remains no evidence that domestic animals, pets or livestock can spread COVID-19 and routine testing of animals for COVID-19 is not justified. However, it’s good practice to wash your hands before and after interacting with animals. We recommend people sick with COVID-19 avoid contact with pets and other animals, as they would with people. This is based on international advice. Where there's COVID-19 in a household, we recommend animals are not moved off the property. Travel is allowed for essential personal movement in your area, including for accessing local services and businesses. When travelling to deliver an animal, such as a puppy, you'll need to ensure that safe practices are implemented. For example, ensuring a safe distance between all people involved in transporting and receiving the animal, and practicing good hygiene practices, such as hand washing. You cannot travel to another region to personally deliver an animal as part of a sale or adoption. However, transporting the animal as freight with a commercial pet transport company is available. This will likely be via land transport. Check with commercial providers. Travel to care for your animals, including horses, is allowed. This includes providing your animals with food, water, exercise and any other aspect that you need to provide to meet your responsibilities under the Animal Welfare Act and relevant codes of welfare. If your animals are in another region that's not in your local area, try to get someone else you trust to provide care if possible. If your horses are in other people’s care, like at a stable or graziers, in your local area then you can visit them, with certain guidelines. You can visit your horses to provide them with care and exercise. You must maintain physical distance from others. If your horses are in other people’s care, and are not in your region, then you should avoid visiting them. Whenever you visit or exercise your horses, make sure you practise good hygiene measures and physical distancing. A roster system for horse owners to visit the facility may be 1 measure that could be implemented to meet this requirement and to ensure contact tracing is easily achievable. The facility must record everyone that is working there, and every visitor and contractor who enters. Limit visits to what is necessary. Under Alert Level 3, farming and other primary sector businesses and support services can operate, as long as they can do so safely. Advice for farmers and agriculture businesses at Alert Level 3 (external link) Animal and pet care service businesses can operate at Alert Level 3 if they can meet safe practice requirements and can operate without physical contact with customers. Only workers are allowed on business premises. Advice for businesses operating at Alert Level 3 — WorkSafe (external link) Last updated: 15 August 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand’s retail banks are able to defer repayments for some mortgages until 31 March 2021. This applies to: You have to be financially affected by COVID-19. These loans will not be viewed as being defaulted. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you may be able to defer principal and interest payments on your loan. Banks and customers have flexibility over the term of any deferral. However, the Reserve Bank’s  concessionary loan guidance will expire on 31 March 2021. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. Interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess each customer that asks for a deferral. The Reserve Bank’s guidance is that lenders should only approve a deferral if: Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise people about this advice: More information for tenants and landlords is available on the Tenancy Services website (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend that settlement is delayed until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or less. You can look for properties to buy, but we recommend doing this without face-to-face contact with real estate agents, owners or existing tenants. Last updated: 2 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you need help to access or pay for accommodation during COVID-19, there are several ways to get support. It depends on your situation. If you’re leaving a managed isolation facility and have nowhere to stay, talk to the manager of your managed isolation facility. If you’re a public housing tenant of Kāinga Ora or a Community Housing provider, contact your tenancy manager. You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009: Housing information at Work and Income (external link) If you’re under 19 call your Youth Service provider if you have one. If you do not have a Youth Service provider call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . Say ‘youth client’ when you call. If you’re in urgent need of housing within the next 7 days and have nowhere else to stay, call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 : Housing information at Work and Income (external link) If you’re at risk from family violence and are in immediate danger call 111 . Press 55 to go through to the police. If you’re not in immediate danger but need help with family violence you can call: Last updated: 1 December 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The freeze on rent increases began on 26 March 2020 and meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. More details about rent increases on the Tenancy Services website (external link) People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise people about this advice: More information for tenants and landlords is available on the Tenancy Services website (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. Last updated: 28 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Waste collection will occur at all Alert Levels. Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) You legally must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. Put your disposable face covering or mask in a closed lidded bin, or put into a bag and seal it before putting into a rubbish bin or taking it home. After disposing of your face covering or mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you prefer, use hand sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use disposable face coverings or masks. Do not flush wet wipes down the toilet, as they can cause a breakdown of our wastewater and sewerage system. Instead, put them into your household rubbish. Waste handling and kerbside collection workers will get the appropriate protection equipment from their employers to ensure their personal safety. Please do not approach workers engaged in waste handling or collection services. Information about personal protective equipment for non-health workers (external link) Most districts will be operating their usual recycling services at Alert Level 1. Check your local council or private collector website and social media platform regularly for updates on recycling arrangements and kerbside collection dates in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) Check your local council or private collector website and social media platform regularly for updates on recycling arrangements and kerbside collection dates in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) Municipal landfills and most waste transfer stations will be open. Some waste transfer stations may allow limited access to the public. Check your local council website for more information before visiting. Check council websites for public recycling facility arrangements in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) While you can undertake gardening or other waste-generating activity at home at Alert Level 3, keep any waste on-site until the Alert Level 3 period has ended. Last updated: 21 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. This summer will be our first under COVID-19 conditions. It’s important we look after ourselves and our whānau over the festive season and summer holidays. Warning: video contains flashing images. Please look away if you have a history of photosensitive epilepsy or suffer from migraines.  As New Zealanders we cherish our annual summer holidays. We all want an uninterrupted summer — uninterrupted by the weather and uninterrupted by COVID-19. While we cannot control the weather, we can control COVID-19. Here are four simple things we can all do to keep each other safe and make our summer unstoppable. Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Scanning QR codes wherever you go is especially important when on holiday because you might not remember all the places you visit. Keep your phone handy to make scanning in quick and easy, especially when shops are crowded over Christmas and New Year. Taking a few seconds to scan means we can quickly let you know when you have visited a place where you may have been exposed to the virus. You can then take steps to protect yourself and your whānau. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. How to keep track of where you’ve been Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you’ve been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing is great for large gatherings and events, like music festivals, when you’re surrounded by people you do not know. Bluetooth tracing does not replace the need to scan NZ COVID Tracer QR codes. You still need to scan QR codes to keep track of where you’ve been. Bluetooth tracing is an added tool — it helps keep track of the people we’ve been near. When you turn on Bluetooth tracing, your privacy is always protected — it cannot share your location, your name or anything else about you. Turn on Bluetooth tracing Do not travel or take part in activities if you’re unwell. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while on you’re on holiday, do not wait until you get home. Call Healthline or your doctor or Nurse Practitioner to see about getting a test. COVID-19 testing services will continue over the Christmas and New Year holiday period. If you’re away from home, you’ll still be able to access tests. By getting a test, you’re helping keep the community safe. Stay home if you’re sick COVID-19 symptoms Washing your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Wash your hands       Many of us will be travelling around New Zealand and going to big events this summer. Shops will be more crowded than usual, and we’ll be going to more social gatherings. Here are some things you can do over our first summer under COVID-19 conditions: Get resources to help your business or event make summer unstoppable. The resources include posters, templates, social media tiles and digital banners. Unstoppable summer toolkit Last updated: 5 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Watch the 28 February 2021 video update in 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 18 February 2021 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 15 October 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 12 October 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 31 August 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 16 August 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Watch 12 August 2020 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Following the resurgence of COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand and the impact it is having on our Pacific communities, it is essential we consider the information we are receiving. Together with our partners Bright Sunday 4pi, the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Police, SunPix, Tagata Pasifika and Pacific Media Network (PMN), the Ministry for Pacific Peoples (MPP) has put together a half hour special programme focusing on Sela Alo, the General Manager of PMN, and his journey of surviving COVID-19, as well as key messages from Pacific community members and leaders. Watch the half-hour programme (external link) We got your back Aotearoa is a social media campaign that is aimed at reaching our Pacific communities and features some of New Zealand's well-known Pacific people, including: They share messages of encouragement to help protect our people and once again beat and eliminate COVID-19. Watch the video messages (external link) Information and advice is available in 10 Pacific languages to support you, your children and young people learning from home. Learning from home (external link) In the battle against COVID-19, Prepare Pacific helps get information out to Pacific communities in Pacific languages. Prepare Pacific is an initiative of Counties Manukau Health, Auckland District Health Board, Waitematā District Health Board, Northland District Health Board and all our essential services who are working around the clock to help our people. Prepare Pacific (external link) If you need a Whānau Ora Family Support Package contact one of our partners. Pacific Business Trust is providing free practical business assistance for all Pacific organisations in New Zealand who have been impacted by COVID-19. Find out more about free business assistance (external link) Pasifika Futures are referring Pacific families who need to access a COVID-19 support package to a supporting agency. Call your local provider to see if you are eligible for support (external link) Last updated: 28 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Advice on education, shared custody, online safety and visiting whānau in aged residential care. Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on managing shared custody, childcare and childcare providers. The internet helps us connect with people but there are also risks. Find out how to stay safe online. Information for visiting friends or whānau in an Aged Residential Care (ARC) facility. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Staying at home if you’re sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you’re waiting for COVID-19 test results, and have been told you need to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it will close for 72 hours to allow for cleaning and contact tracing. If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz At Alert Level 1, early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are physically open for all age groups. Children, young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at school or on school transport. Find out when you need to wear a face covering At Alert Level 2, early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are physically open for all age groups. Extra public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease and to support contact tracing. Distance learning will be available for those who cannot attend school – for example, where students are required to self-isolate. Workplace-based learning will follow the rules that apply to the relevant industry. More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) (external link) Children, young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at their service or school, or on school transport. Find out when you need to wear a face covering  At Alert Level 3, children and young people should learn from home. Any child who can’t be supervised at home by an appropriate person can attend their service or school. A wide range of businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 3, which means that parents and caregivers may be required to go to work, rather than work from or stay at home. Services and schools must be open for children in these situations to attend. Play centres and playgroups will be closed. Home-based early learning services can open with a maximum number of 4 licensed children, including the educators’ own children, provided they meet public health requirements. Distance learning will be provided for all students who are off-site, including those who have to self-isolate or who health authorities have asked to stay away while waiting for a test result. Distance learning support and resources (external link) More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) All teaching and other activities should be done remotely, wherever possible. Where it is not possible to deliver teaching online, some facilities may provide education services if Alert level 3 guidelines are followed. Any class or workshop that cannot be delivered online and remains open must be limited to 20 people or less. Each such group is considered a ‘bubble’ and must not interact with any other student/staff bubbles of 20. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) Face coverings are recommended for tertiary students and staff when attending on-site activities.  Ministry of Education – COVID-19 i nformation and advice (external link) COVID-19 bulletins for tertiary education providers and students (external link) Last updated: 1 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: This is a good time for parents and caregivers to learn about tools like filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. You may be watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz . It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse, and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Make a non-emergency report to the police (external link) Last updated: 15 August 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. During all COVID-19 Alert Levels, visits to ARC facilities will be restricted. It is important that facilities take extra precautions to ensure people in their care are safe. This is particularly important for those who are more at risk of infection and severe illness. At all Alert Levels, if you visit a facility: You cannot enter a facility if you: During Alert Level 1, visits will be allowed. Providers may continue to take some extra precautions to reduce the risk to the residents and staff. Contact the provider to discuss your visit. Formal visiting hours may remain in place. Remember to follow the Alert Level 1 guidelines. This includes: During Alert Level 2, visits will be allowed. Providers will take precautions and manage visits in a controlled way. This will minimise the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to residents and staff. Visits may be limited to designated visitors. There may be a limit on the number of designated visitors at one time. Check with the provider before organising a visit. Lengths of visits and visiting areas will be determined by the provider. They will consider the resident’s health, preference, and the number of appointments the facility already has. Health screening and assessment of visitors will be completed before entering the facility. Visitors must follow infection prevention and control measures. This includes hand hygiene, physical distancing and appropriate use of PPE. Last updated: 8 October 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At different Alert Levels, gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and it will also impact a number of other religious practices. There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a religious event or ceremony at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at religious events and ceremonies to keep track of attendees. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses Religious buildings can open at Alert Level 2. Up to 100 people can gather in each defined space for religious ceremonies, events and services. A defined space is an area that is partitioned off from other areas by permanent or temporary walls. Faith-based institutions and clubs can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each area. You will need to prevent mingling between groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. Read more about defined spaces at Alert Level 2 Gatherings legally must: We recommend that religious and faith-based gatherings follow social gathering rules, unless they’re operating under a club licence to sell alcohol. Then we recommend following hospitality rules. We recommend not participating in any gatherings if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. We recommend following the general guidance for gatherings, including measures such as frequent cleaning, good hygiene, wearing face coverings and physical distancing. More information about gatherings and events at Alert Level 2. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they’re visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must adhere to the visiting policy of the health facility and follow the relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Halaal butchers may open, and you may enter the store. The shop legally must adhere to physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 2. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. A maximum of 100 people can attend the funeral. Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. Places of worship can use a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. You cannot enter the premises. We recommend either collecting your meat or getting it delivered to your home. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend funerals. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link)  Last updated: 7 October 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. How to shop safely, access goods and services, get essential supplies, and how to eat out and about safely. How to shop safely, including advice about getting groceries delivered, and what to do if you suspect price gouging. Advice for accessing goods and services, such as food shopping, healthcare, waste collection and vets. Support available if you need help getting groceries and other essential supplies. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. These goods and services are available at all Alert Levels: Supermarkets and dairies are open at all Alert Levels. Supermarket websites tell you if they have online shopping available for everyone. If they are reserving online shopping for sick or at-risk people, we recommending you go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. Guidance for shopping safely Doctors, hospitals and pharmacies are open at all Alert Levels. Call your doctor before you visit. How to access healthcare If you need help, there is financial support available. This includes help with financial hardship from Work and Income and a mortgage repayment holiday. Find out what financial support is available Waste collection will occur at all Alert Levels. Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. More guidance about waste collection Funeral directors will continue working at all Alert Levels. The rules for funerals and tangihanga are different for each Alert Level. Information about funerals and tangihanga at different Alert Levels Veterinary services are available at all Alert Levels. If you’re self-isolating, you legally must phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) Last updated: 19 August 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you need food, there are a number of ways to get help. You may be able to get help through Work and Income. You don’t need to be an existing Work and Income client. If your situation is urgent and you need food within the next 24 to 48 hours, you can contact a local food bank. The Ministry of Social Development is helping fund these. Find food banks and other food assistance services across New Zealand (external link) Support may be available to get food delivered if you can’t leave your home. You can make: If this is not possible, you can also seek assistance through community groups, food banks, social service or health providers. Contact details for these groups on the Family Services Directory (external link) If you also need financial assistance, call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals in New Zealand Work and Income may be able to help you pay for groceries or goods, if you’re on a low income or a benefit. Find out how Work and Income can help (external link) Last updated: 7 October 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you are heading out to pick up the essentials, plan your shopping in advance. Do not make multiple trips and make sure you know what restrictions shops have in place. Supermarkets, dairies, butchers, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations, pharmacies and permitted health services are open at all Alert Levels, and you can go into their premises. All other shops can open if they can safely do so. This means following health restrictions for the relevant Alert Level. Guidance on which workplaces are open at different Alert Levels, and how they should operate (external link) Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19 or were told to self-isolate. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell If you cannot get essential supplies The risk of COVID-19 transmission by food packaging is very unlikely. New Zealand Food Safety do not recommend disinfecting food products. Supermarket websites will tell you if they have slots available for general online shopping. If they reserve these for sick or at-risk people, we recommend going to the supermarket instead of shopping online. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries. We recommend following the advice that applies to the Alert Level you're in. Businesses are free to set their own prices, but businesses should be transparent about their prices and any increases during this time. You can report concerns about potential price gouging on goods and services to Price Watch. Report price increases you have noticed to Price Watch (external link) Last updated: 27 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. How to improve community resilience, connect communities, and how to prepare for an emergency as a community. Buying local is a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Help local tourism businesses by getting out and seeing New Zealand. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) Last updated: 23 July 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Learn about all of the heroes supporting their communities to stay safe, healthy and informed about COVID-19. David Dewhurst is one of 80 volunteers who made up the QLDC COVID-19 Emergency Response Team from March to June 2020. With COVID-19 shutting our borders and businesses, thousands, mostly migrants, were out of work, unable to pay for groceries and rent, and ineligible for government support. Elderly and vulnerable community members were unable to shop safely to get essential groceries and medication. Anxiety rose, mental health and well-being suffered; the community responded. From March 24 to June 30, 23,342 requests for emergency support were submitted by 7,377 people living in the Queenstown Lakes area (population 39,153). Volunteers worked unpaid on a two-days on, two-days off roster to make hundreds of calls to people who had submitted requests for support. Through a rigorous needs assessment system, thousands of people were able to access the Civil Defence-funded supermarket voucher scheme to get food. Volunteers also responded to requests for accommodation, financial support, mental health assistance, assistance with pets, and language help. The QLDC Emergency Response Team was a semi-finalist in the Mitre 10 NZ Community of the Year 2021 awards (external link) . Watch David’s story (external link)  Manish Pandey is the vice president of Christchurch Multicultural Council. During the lockdown, Manish, in association with the Indian High Commission and community groups, assisted international students and new migrant families get access to food and other essentials. He also helped by translating official COVID-19 advice and news for the Indian community. Manish is a volunteer for the Office of Ethnic Communities as information facilitator on its Multilingual Information Network, working with OEC to help share important government information - ensuring New Zealand’s ethnic communities receive material in languages and ways that work for them.  Sikh temples around New Zealand responded to the national lockdown and the Alert Level 3 changes by distributing thousands of food parcels to hungry people. The Supreme Sikh Society observed that as the national lockdown continued last year, an increasing number of people were struggling to get access to food. During this time, the society estimated its temples distributed free meals and food parcels to 66,000 families from Auckland to Queenstown. For this work, the Society received the New Zealand Food Heroes People’s Choice Award in 2020. The award acknowledged: “The scale and compassion to vulnerable communities by the Supreme Sikh Society is impressive. Their timely and valuable response to the challenges of COVID show a dedication to the greater good.” In Auckland, Counties Manukau Police classified the Sikh temple in Takanini as an essential service provider where its Sikh volunteers even ensured a contactless system for collecting food where drivers were asked to drive in one gate, open their boot for a volunteer to load the parcel, before driving out through another gate. Sikh society wins prestigious award for service to community (external link)  Allen Lim is a horticulturalist at Jade Garden in the Selwyn District, near Christchurch. During lockdown last year when wholesale suppliers were shut, he donated vegetables to community food banks which were running out of food. He and his group of tramping friends had come up with the idea to supply food banks because they were aware of the food shortages. He says he couldn’t have done without his tramping group who helped to get the produce out of the ground because although there was a surplus of produce, he was struggling to keep up with the demand from the supermarkets at the time.  Rozina Shaheen, known as Tooba Habib, originally from Pakistan, moved to Christchurch in 2007. She is a well-known community leader and volunteer among Canterbury’s ethnic communities and is the women’s coordinator of Muslim Association of Canterbury. Tooba spent last year helping some of the 15 March Christchurch terror attack victims but also provided support and coordination for international students and their families left isolated in New Zealand because of the COVID-19 pandemic. She helped these families get access to financial assistance as part of her ‘Support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ’ programme. Tooba is grateful for the kind hearts of New Zealanders who provided emotional and financial support to those in the community who are in need.  Eva Chen is an Auckland Council Ethnicity Peoples Advisory Panel member and a Strategies for Kids, Information for Parents (SKIP) Champion with Oranga Tamariki’s SKIP programme working with immigrant communities. Eva co-founded the Wellbeing Charitable Trust which has been working with Asian communities since 2014. She led a COVID-19 support programme to help ensure that New Zealand’s Chinese communities had access to official COVID-19 information. Just before lockdown, Eva set up the Mt Albert Chinese business support group to ensure people remained connected and supported. A key aim was to prevent family harm during a stressful time. She helped provide daily COVID-19 information updates in Chinese. Since July 2020, her group has focused on post-COVID-19 support for individuals and families, helping with the consequences of bullying and racism. Wellbeing Charitable Trust (external link)  Narinder Singh Warraich, originally from northern India, is the president of the Canterbury Punjabi Association. During the national lockdown, Narinder and his team assisted international students, stranded visitors and new migrant families by distributing food and face masks. He translated COVID-19 advice and news and used community radio and social media to keep the community informed. After the lockdown, Narinder took the initiative of organising workshops for people who had lost their jobs. One job fair attracted over 120 participants and connected unemployed people to Work and Income Work Brokers. Christchurch City MP Dr Duncan Webb acknowledged the work of the Association with a Members’ motion in Parliament on 26 May 2020, asking the House to “express its gratitude to the Canterbury Punjabi Association for the outstanding work it did over the period of the COVID-19 lockdown in supporting both its own community and the wider Canterbury community by the provision of free food parcels to anyone in need, in keeping with the best Punjabi tradition of daswandh and selfless service”.  Jane Potts is a St John Volunteer Ambulance Officer in Darfield. She attended ambulance callouts at any time of the day or night through all Alert Levels during the lockdown. This was unpaid. It required her to leave her safety bubble in order to save lives. Jane was awarded a Selwyn District Council COVID Heroes Award for her selfless dedication and professionalism to the community.  Jessica Phuang led her police team of 11 ethnic liaison officers to ensure that ethnic communities did not become victims of scams or racism. They gathered feedback on challenges faced in dealing with different government agencies, and to give advice and suggestions to those agencies on how to meet the needs of these communities. The team also linked ethnic communities to appropriate service providers and helped keep them updated with COVID-19 news. Through some ethnic social media channels, they were able to counteract misinformation and co-opt these channels to work with police. The team also contacted international students and tourists stranded in New Zealand without support to ensure that they were getting assistance.  Russ Carroll was a key person in the supply line of essential goods for delivery to workers and communities. During lockdown, he managed the delivery of thousands of online orders made by New Zealanders isolating in their homes. His motivated team worked long hours during a time of great uncertainty. Physical distancing rules had to be implemented together with a lane system to allow staff to get around the shop safely and efficiently. Workers would handpick products, pack stock and process orders, dealing with up to 2,500 packages a day. Russ is grateful for the support he received from the company, which in turn meant he could offer the best support for his team during an unprecedented time.  Vincents Art Workshop is a Wellington social service that welcomes people with disabilities, those moving into the community from institutions, the unemployed, people on low incomes and others. During lockdown and throughout 2020, its tutors provided connections and activities for its community of artists. The Vincents Artist Group on Facebook grew to 188 members. Staff published tutorials on its Facebook page, website, YouTube and on the Arts Access Aotearoa Facebook page to keep its artists busy. Tutors were careful to suggest using art materials that were commonly available at home or in people’s gardens. Regular communication with all its artists was vital to keep everyone connected and safe. Staff often held phone conversations with artists, their family members or support people when there were concerns about some artists’ anxiety levels. The Vincents team continues to work with a focus on contact tracing and hygiene to protect its community. Vincents Art Workshop (external link)  With the arrival of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Pakistan Association acted quickly to share awareness and safety information. It initiated regular Facebook Live and Zoom meetings to help its 10,000 community members. These initiatives were expanded to wider communities to work collaboratively in other areas like child and elder welfare. Association members, including doctors, clinical nurses, health workers, emergency specialist nurses, pharmacists and mental health support workers, were able to respond to COVID-19-related enquiries from its members. Volunteers also mobilised in South Auckland, distributing free food parcels and personal protective equipment (PPE) to people in need irrespective of religious affiliation or ethnicity. The Association also helped in situations requiring end-of-life care, funerals, burials and emergencies during lockdown. Pakistan Association of New Zealand (external link)  Gatluak, originally from South Sudan, is a community advocate at the Aotearoa Resettled Community Coalition (ARCC). He’s the voice of forced migrant background communities (communities that lived as refugees in other countries and resettled here). In 2020, Gatluak shared COVID-19 information from the Ministry of Health with Sudanese community leaders and families in the US, Norway, France, UK, Denmark, Finland, Canada, Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda, Sudan, South Sudan and Egypt. He translated and relayed information to combat misinformation in Sudanese communities where accurate information was hard to access. During lockdowns in the Auckland region, he distributed face masks and food parcels to many Auckland communities, and used ARCC video and radio to broadcast messages of health and wellbeing. Find out more about Gatluak’s story (external link) Aotearoa Resettled Community Coalition (external link)  Tam is the President of Lakes District Multicultural Council (LDMC) and founder of the charity Baskets of Blessing.  During the lockdown last year, she initiated a migrant needs assessment survey to find out how to best support migrants. The survey results were shared with other South Island community groups and used to identify needs and gaps in the community. LDMC also delivered grocery and pharmacy vouchers and arranged for medical appointments for those who could not afford them. This summer, Tam’s work is focused on the rollout of various initiatives to support vulnerable groups, including providing COVID-19 information, distributing personal protective equipment (PPE), delivering self-care and wellness kits to those who are isolated or lonely, organising opportunities for connection for migrants and working with other groups to build community resilience. Lakes District Multicultural Council Facebook page (external link) Baskets of Blessing (external link)  Hero is the co-ordinator of ‘Toranj’, a fortnightly Plains FM radio programme and podcast in the Farsi language of the Iranian community. During the nationwide lockdown last year, Hero and the Christchurch Iranian Society team translated information and gave daily COVID-19 updates. This was critical at a time when ‘infodemic’ (or ‘fake news’) had become a serious obstacle to getting government-sanctioned science-based pandemic information. The Christchurch Iranian Society set up online classes to provide opportunities for people with limited English to learn new skills and/or pick up a hobby while the country navigated through the different Alert Levels. The programmes included yoga classes, cooking and photography — each given by qualified members of the Iranian community in New Zealand. Plains FM (external link)  Alfie is a Plains FM broadcaster and producer of the Tagalog language programme Kabayan Radio for the Filipino community in Canterbury. His programme is also broadcast on Radio Southland in Invercargill. Over lockdown, Alfie broadcast important COVID-19 messages on Facebook Live from his garage and recorded and sent in another programme for Plains FM to broadcast weekly which included key messages from the Unite against COVID website. Alfie is continuing to broadcast his radio programme, giving advice and assistance to the Filipino community, including reminders on keeping safe from COVID-19. Plains FM (external link)  James Roque, an Auckland-based comedian and writer who describes himself as the Filipino stepson of New Zealand comedy, was the face of the Human Rights Commission and the Office of Ethnic Communities’ Racism Is No Joke campaign. James was featured in a series of short videos discussing racist jokes, and why they are not OK. The Racism Is No Joke campaign was launched in July 2020 as a specific response to racism towards Chinese and other Asian people in New Zealand because of COVID-19. Using humour and insights from his own experience as the second generation of a Filipino migrant family, James sought to influence New Zealanders and increase public awareness of racial discrimination and its negative impact on Asian communities living here. James Roque's website (external link)  Annemarie is a former ICU nurse who responded to the call by the Nursing Council of New Zealand for ex-nurses to help with the COVID-19 pandemic response. The Lakes district health board (DHB) nursing team were given 12 hours’ notice to set up the first of 2 managed isolation facilities in Rotorua. She says there is a lot of misunderstanding in the community about what they do. While she is on the frontline of a ‘Viral World War’, they have the right equipment and processes to protect the public. Her Rotorua team has been working hard to educate the community and demystify their work in Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ). Annemarie will be spending her summer working with her 450 Rotorua nursing, Defence Force and security colleagues to continue to keep the community safe. The Waikato district health board Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) Cultural Intervention Team welcomes and supports arrivals in MIQ in accordance with the manaakitanga (hospitality) of Waikato people. Their work supports every facet of Tikanga Māori, from welcoming returning guests, completing assessments, supporting those experiencing bereavement and trauma, and providing karakia and a safe space to korero. Activities offered include online Zumba fitness sessions, flax weaving, Mau Rakau (Māori martial arts) and te reo Māori classes. During the lockdown, the cultural team provided support to all ethnicities. Despite all the work they and the wider MIQ team does to protect New Zealand, its team leader, Ikimoke Tamaki-Takarei, says staff are often stigmatised in the community, despite the very strict health guidelines they work to. Maysa is the host of Bel A’arabee, a weekly Free FM radio show and podcast. She saw a much-needed opportunity to get relevant COVID-19 information delivered quickly, and she worked hard to translate the content for New Zealand’s Arabic-speaking communities. Maysa translated the Prime Minister’s COVID-19 media conferences, recording them in Arabic for broadcasting and podcasting on Free FM by 5pm each day. When Free FM went into lockdown, she continued to produce her programme from home. Her fellow broadcasters at Free FM are proud of her commitment and achievement in making each day’s information delivered quickly to the Arabic speaking communities. www.freefm.org.nz (external link) Sara is a Chinese language journalist and broadcaster. She worked at WTV, an Auckland-based Chinese language television station where she translated Unite against COVID-19 information for Chinese viewers. Sara’s broadcasts helped keep the mainly Mandarin-speaking communities in touch and up to date with Alert Level changes. Sara has a YouTube channel which she uses to entertain people and keep give them advice on all manner of subjects. She has even made one on the Make Summer Unstoppable theme. Sara's YouTube channel (external link)  The Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust is a Christchurch-based non-profit volunteering organisation that provides community services to the community. During lockdown, the Trust contacted vulnerable people with a special focus on elderly individuals who lived alone. Trust volunteers carried out food deliveries and provided financial assistance by assisting with Ministry of Social Development (MSD) grants. Volunteers also supported vulnerable people and families emotionally and socially to make them feel safe and stronger. The Trust opened an op-shop to help supply affordable winter and summer clothing to those affected by the closure of workplaces and the loss of work contracts and hours. Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust Facebook page (external link)  Lepou was a broadcaster with Plains FM on the weekly Samoan language programme Samoa Feso’ota’i. During the lockdown last year, she was active in her community, translating and broadcasting important COVID-19 messaging on the weekly radio show and podcast. She also delivered food parcels, food vouchers, hygiene packs and face coverings to over 200 families and 10 churches in the Christchurch area. Many of the struggling families and individuals had contacted her through her radio show. Sadly, Lepou recently passed away but her team is intent on carrying on the good works and service that she brought to her community. Listen to Samoa Feso’ota’i at Plains FM (external link)  The team of staff and volunteers at Asian Families Services (AFS) continues to provide counselling support and advice to diverse communities over the summer. During the lockdown, its services experienced a spike in demand on its Asian Helpline number, with many callers needing psychological, medical and informational support. Many clients are vulnerable, non-English speaking older people with long-term health conditions and/or mobility limitations who became completely isolated during the lockdown. AFS provides services in Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Japanese, Thai, Vietnamese and Hindi. During 2020, it worked with 2,834 clients, carried out 6,101 interventions and took 3,215 Helpline calls. Find out more about Asian Families Services (external link)  When Graham Bye arrived in New Zealand to join The Warehouse in January 2020, he never expected during his first few months that he would have to deal with the challenges of an unprecedented global pandemic. The Warehouse at Sylvia Park, which Graham manages, became a vital source of essential supplies requested by government agencies during the lockdown. Following the request from government, Graham and his team moved quickly to rearrange the shop, so it was fit for purpose to pack orders for requested products. Every day, they would receive an email with a list of required items which the team needed to locate within the store and package. Team members would grab shopping trolleys to collect the requested stock from the shelves and then box them up for delivery. Graham liaised with government agencies throughout Alert Levels 4 and 3 to maintain supply lines. He also ensured his team remained motivated, upbeat, connected and above all else, safe.  The CNSST Foundation (formerly known as the Chinese New Settlers Services Trust) provides services to Asian new settlers, including settlement orientation, educational and work programmes, and social housing. The Foundation’s Social Housing Team worked hard to protect a vulnerable group of people — elderly people, particularly the 51 residents who live in its social housing apartment. The team is continuing its work over the summer by providing information and services, including distributing personal protective equipment (PPE), to keep its elderly residents connected and safe. Find out more about The CNSST Foundation (external link)  Team TANI has been fully committed to responding to the increased community needs of Asian peoples in the Auckland region during the COVID-19 crisis. It did this by providing the most up-to-date information for accessing relevant public health, social support and mental well-being services. The team also initiated online wellbeing programs to support Asian communities during a challenging year and will continue that work in 2021. Find out more about The Asian Network Incorporated (external link)  Last updated: 25 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It’s natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it’s important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) When we get to know our neighbours we’re more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) Last updated: 23 July 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You’ll be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) Last updated: 23 July 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Information and guidance on COVID-19 symptoms, getting tested and what happens if you test positive. The COVID-19 vaccine is free, available to everyone 16 and over, and will help protect New Zealanders. Advice on getting medical advice, flu vaccinations, health services and getting medical care if your visa has expired. How you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Information and guidance on COVID-19 symptoms, getting tested and what happens if you test positive. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, how fast they appear and what to do if you have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. What to expect if you test positive for COVID-19, including going into quarantine, what to expect when you're there and when you can safely return home. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 vaccine is free, available to everyone 16 and over, and will help protect New Zealanders. You might be interested in Find data and statistics about New Zealand's vaccine rollout on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Vaccine data (external link) Find out about New Zealand's vaccine rollout and what to expect when getting vaccinated. Learn how vaccines are approved in New Zealand, vaccine side effects, and how we monitor how safe a vaccine is once it's being used. There’s never been this level of global collaboration amongst scientists and governments in vaccine development. Find out about the vaccines we're using, which ones we've agreed to purchase, and our vaccine strategy. Useful resources and information sheets about COVID-19 vaccines and the rollout.          Last updated: 1 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Useful resources and information sheets about COVID-19 vaccines and the rollout. Useful resources and information sheets about COVID-19 vaccines and the rollout. Beware of misinformation about COVID-19 vaccines and immunisation on social media and other sources. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Scammers will use any opportunity to try to trick and manipulate you into giving out your personal or financial details, especially through email and SMS scams. We will never ask you to pay for the COVID-19 vaccine or to secure your place in a queue. If you are asked — by email or SMS, for example — it's probably a scam. If you are aware of a COVID-19 vaccine-related scam, report it to CERT NZ. Report a COVID-19 vaccine scam to CERT NZ (external link) (external link) There’s a lot of information on social media — it’s overwhelming and hard to know what’s reliable. Here are 5 tips to help you make sure what you read online is from a reliable source: Anyone on the internet can publish anything they like. It's important to understand the goals of that publication. You can often learn about a website's background by reviewing its 'About' page. The sources of an article are a strong reflection of an article's quality. If the article doesn't list sources, ask yourself — where is this information coming from? If the article does list sources, check them and make sure you believe they are authoritative. You can usually find this at the top or bottom of the page. Recently written articles are more likely to be trustworthy than outdated articles. Poor grammar and multiple spelling mistakes could be a flag that the information you are reading is not trustworthy. Reputable publishers put a lot of effort into making sure their articles are easy to read. If the page you are on has advertising that blocks you from reading the article, or formatting that makes it difficult to read, then those are signs the publication is not trustworthy. The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system, and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. COVID-19 vaccine information from the Ministry of Health (external link) Immunisation information from the Ministry of Health (external link) IMAC is a nationwide organisation based at the School of Population Health at The University of Auckland. It provides independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research about vaccine-preventable diseases the benefits and risks of immunisation. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) WHO is an agency of the United Nations, and is responsible for international public health. Vaccine information from WHO (external link) Misinformation and scams Last updated: 10 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Learn how vaccines are approved in New Zealand, vaccine side effects, and how we monitor how safe a vaccine is once it's being used. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand must comply with international and local standards for quality, safety and effectiveness. Find out about side effects and what to do if you experience them. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines are being monitored to make sure they're safe, and how to report side effects. Find out about getting the coronavirus vaccine while pregnant or breastfeeding. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Like all medicines, COVID-19 vaccines may cause side effects in some people. This is the body’s normal response and shows the vaccine is working. The most common reported reactions are: These are usually mild and won't stop you from having the second dose or going about your daily life. Learn more about who can have the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and what it contains You can: If you have side effects or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your family doctor or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453. If you’re concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you’ve had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. If you’ve had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell the person giving you the vaccine. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to treat you immediately. If you experience side effects (also known as adverse events) after receiving a COVID-19 vaccine, we encourage you to report them. How to report side effects Ministry of Health information about the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine (Comirnaty) (external link) Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine (Comirnaty): Consumer Medicine Information summary (external link)  Last updated: 10 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You should discuss your individual situation (particularly if you have other medical conditions) and the benefits and risks of receiving the COVID-19 vaccination while pregnant with your midwife or doctor. If you are pregnant and choose to have the vaccine, you are able to get early access. This is because people who are pregnant can become very sick if they get COVID-19. You can get vaccinated if you are breastfeeding. Find out when you can get a vaccine Learn more about the COVID-19 vaccines being used in New Zealand Immunisation Advisory Centre information about COVID-19 vaccines in pregnancy and breastfeeding (external link) Last updated: 9 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. In New Zealand, applications for all new medicines (including vaccines) are assessed by the New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority (Medsafe). Medsafe is responsible for regulating all medicines and medical devices in New Zealand. They are part of the Ministry of Health. Medsafe will only approve a vaccine for use in New Zealand once they are confident it complies with international standards and local requirements for quality, safety and efficacy. There is no ‘emergency use authorisation’ in New Zealand. Medsafe's role in the response to COVID-19 (external link) Because COVID-19 vaccines have been developed quickly and use new technologies, Medsafe is seeking expert advice from the COVID-19 Vaccine Advisory Group. Medsafe can also choose to refer vaccines to the Medicines Assessment Advisory Committee for a final recommendation about approval. Medicines Assessment Advisory Committee (external link) As data to support the longer-term safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines is not yet available, any approvals are likely to be provisional. This means there may be restrictions on how the vaccine can be used and who it can be offered to. If a vaccine is granted provisional approval, pharmaceutical companies must provide more information (from clinical trials, for example) as it becomes available. Medsafe’s vaccine evaluation and approval process (external link) Ministry of Health information about vaccine safety and approval (external link) Last updated: 10 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The safety of all medicines approved for use in New Zealand is checked by the New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority (Medsafe). Medsafe will continually review any COVID-19 vaccines being used and take appropriate action if any risks are identified. Medsafe uses information from many different sources to check vaccine safety including: The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. Adverse events following immunisation with COVID-19 vaccines: Safety Report #1 (external link) If you experience a side effect (also known as an adverse event) after receiving a COVID-19 vaccination, you can report it to CARM. Report a side effect (external link) Last updated: 8 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Find out about the vaccines we're using, which ones we've agreed to purchase, and our vaccine strategy. New Zealand has signed agreements with 4 pharmaceutical companies to purchase COVID-19 vaccines, if they are proven to be safe and effective. Learn about the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and who it has been approved for in New Zealand. The Government is making sure New Zealand has a range of options, so we can get the right COVID-19 vaccines and support our Pacific neighbours. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has guaranteed that everyone in New Zealand will have access to the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine. It has secured an additional 8.5 million doses, enough to vaccinate 4.25 million people. Government purchases enough Pfizer vaccines for all New Zealanders Pfizer/BioNTech is now New Zealand’s primary vaccine provider. We still have purchase agreements in place for other types of vaccines. All agreements are subject to the vaccines successfully completing all clinical trials and passing regulatory approvals in New Zealand before they will be provided to the community. Type of vaccine: mRNA-based vaccine Doses needed: 2 Number of doses agreed to: 10 million Status: Provisional approval, with conditions Learn more about the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine Type of vaccine: Viral vector vaccine Doses needed: 1 Number of doses agreed to: Up to 5 million Status: Application received, some data under evaluation, further data to be provided. Agreement advanced to purchase up to 5 million COVID-19 vaccines (external link) Type of vaccine: Viral vector vaccine Doses needed: 2 Number of doses agreed to: 7.6 million Status: Application received, some data under evaluation, further data to be provided. Two new vaccines secured, enough for every New Zealander (external link) Type of vaccine: Protein subunit vaccine Doses needed: 2 Number of doses agreed to: 10.72 million Two new vaccines secured, enough for every New Zealander (external link) Last updated: 10 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government’s goal is to give New Zealand and our Pacific neighbours access to safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines as early as possible. This will help us to: Our COVID-19 vaccine strategy outlines how we'll do this. It makes sure the Government can: Find out more about our COVID-19 vaccine strategy (external link) The COVID-19 Vaccine Strategy Taskforce was set up to oversee how the vaccine strategy is implemented. It was made up of: It was supported with independent expert advice by the Science and Technical Advisory Group (STAG), which included representatives from across the science and research community. Learn more about the COVID-19 Vaccine Strategy Taskforce (external link) We have signed advance purchase agreements with 4 pharmaceutical companies that are developing COVID-19 vaccines. Our COVID-19 vaccine agreements The Government has set aside just under $NZ 1 billion ($NZ 983.7 million) to secure access to COVID-19 vaccines. This is from the COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund. COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund (external link) The Government has invested $27 million in COVID-19 vaccine development through the COVAX Facility. This is a global collaboration for speeding up the development, manufacture and fair distribution of new vaccines. As part of this agreement, we will have the option to purchase successful COVID-19 vaccines for up to 50% of New Zealand’s population and up to 50% of the populations of the Realm countries (Tokelau, Cook Islands and Niue). The Government has also set aside funds for medical supplies and infrastructure – including personal protective equipment (PPE), needles, syringes and swabs. This is to make sure New Zealand and the Realm countries are ready to launch a vaccination programme as soon as a safe and effective COVID-19 vaccine is available. Securing medicine supply and investing in COVID-19 capacity (external link)  Last updated: 10 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand has secured 10 million doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine — enough for 5 million people. It has been approved for use in New Zealand in people aged 16 and over. It is an mRNA vaccine, and is given in 2 doses about 3 weeks apart. The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine (Comirnaty) is not approved for people under the age of 16 for now, as they were not part of the clinical trials. Let your vaccinator know if you: Talk to a health professional first if you: Vaccine safety and side effects Comirnaty is a mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain: Learn more about what's in the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine (external link) Clinical trial data from the pharmaceutical company indicates that Comirnaty has been up to 95% effective in trial participants. As with any vaccine, Comirnaty may not fully protect everyone who gets it. We don’t yet know how long you’ll be protected for, or if it will stop you from catching and passing on the virus. The Ministry of Health is looking at data from other countries about the impact new strains may have on how effective the vaccines are. The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine will not give you COVID-19. There is no possibility it could affect your DNA/genes. How COVID-19 vaccines are being developed If your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 is low, the general recommendation is to wait until after you've had your baby to be vaccinated.  You can get vaccinated if you are breastfeeding. Learn more about getting vaccinated while pregnant or breastfeeding You'll need to wait at least: Ministry of Health information about COVID-19 vaccine types (external link) Medsafe information about vaccine safety and approvals in New Zealand (external link) Immunisation Advisory Centre information about vaccines in pregnancy and breastfeeding (external link) Last updated: 8 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Find out about New Zealand's vaccine rollout and what to expect when getting vaccinated. We have a plan to provide a free COVID-19 vaccine to protect everyone in New Zealand. People at greater risk will get the vaccine first. We will have enough COVID-19 vaccines for everyone in New Zealand. They are free and voluntary. People at greater risk will get their vaccination first. Find out how to book an appointment to get vaccinated, and what to expect on the day. If you need to travel outside of New Zealand, you can apply for an early COVID-19 vaccine on compassionate grounds or for reasons of national significance. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can apply for an early vaccine on compassionate grounds if you need to travel overseas to: You may be eligible for an early vaccine if you need to travel overseas to: The relevant agency or association will apply on your behalf.  If you are travelling overseas before 31 August , you can apply online for an early vaccine through the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an early vaccine (external link) What to do when leaving New Zealand Last updated: 7 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. We have a plan to provide a free COVID-19 vaccine to protect everyone in New Zealand. People at greater risk will get the vaccine first. If you're 16 or over, answer these questions to find out when you can get a vaccine. Your result will tell you which group you’re probably in — Group 1, 2, 3, or 4 — depending on your age and situation. These dates are estimates — the actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. We have started vaccinating Group 2 — high-risk frontline healthcare workers and people living in high-risk places  31 March — Group 2 includes health students working on clinical placements. COVID-19 vaccines will be free and voluntary for everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over, regardless of their visa or citizenship status. Any information collected will not be used for immigration purposes. Find out how the COVID-19 vaccine rollout will work Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. COVID-19 vaccines are free and voluntary for everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over It doesn't matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Any information collected will not be used for immigration purposes. We’ll confirm your contact details through our records and your employer. A health worker from your regional DHB will then contact you about making an appointment to get vaccinated. You can book your vaccination at the same time as your regular testing schedule. When you get an appointment, you'll also be sent a link to an online form to provide details of the people you live with. If you’re not contacted to make an appointment, talk to your employer. If you're a frontline healthcare worker, you can expect an invitation to be vaccinated from your employer, local DHB or health provider. If you have not received an invitation by mid-April, speak to your employer or contact your local DHB. Find contact details for your local DHB (external link) For other people in Group 2, we are working with DHBs and health providers to confirm how your vaccination appointments will work. You don’t need to do anything just yet. We’ll update the COVID-19 vaccines section of this website soon with more information. We'll provide information about appointments for other groups closer to the time they can be vaccinated. Find out which group you're in Advice about the vaccine for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 96 KB] Advice about the vaccination process for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 89 KB] The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine is the only vaccine approved for use in New Zealand so far. We will be getting enough doses of this vaccine for everyone in Aotearoa. Who the vaccine has been approved for You'll need to wait at least: A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You'll be asked: A healthcare worker will inject the vaccine into your upper arm. Once you've been vaccinated, you’ll need to stay behind for 20 minutes . This is to make sure you don’t have any immediate allergic or adverse reactions. We'll record information about your COVID-19 immunisations in our COVID Immunisation Register. You’ll be given a card that shows the date you've been vaccinated and the batch number. When your vaccine appointment is confirmed, you’ll get instructions on what to do if you need to reschedule your appointment for any reason. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 91 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine — simplified version [PDF, 223 KB] After your immunisation [PDF, 85 KB] COVID-19 vaccines privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] Like all medicines, the vaccine may cause side effects in some people. This is the body’s normal response and shows the vaccine is working. Side effects are usually mild, don’t last long and won’t stop you from having the second dose or going about your daily life. Serious allergic reactions can happen but are extremely rare. Learn more about side effects You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) later. You should get an automated reminder about your second appointment closer to the time. If you can’t make your appointment, reschedule as soon as possible. For the best protection, it's important to get your second dose — even if you get mild side effects after the first dose. Ministry of Health information about vaccine appointments (external link) Your privacy when getting vaccinated (external link) Last updated: 1 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Find data and statistics about New Zealand's vaccine rollout on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Vaccine data (external link) COVID-19 vaccination is free and voluntary for everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over, regardless of their visa or citizenship status. We plan to: The best way to protect you, your kaumātua and whānau is to get vaccinated. The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine is the main COVID-19 vaccine being used in New Zealand. The Government has secured enough doses for everyone. Learn more about the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine People under the age of 16 are not included for now. Limited data is available for this age group as they weren’t part of the clinical trials. Who can get the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine These dates are estimates — the actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. Find out when you can get vaccinated The first people to be vaccinated are people working at the border or in MIQ, and the people they live with (household contacts). Learn more about Group 1 You are in this group if you: Learn more about Group 2 You’re in this group if you are: Learn more about Group 3 You’re in this group if you’re aged 16 or over. Learn more about Group 4  The COVID-19 vaccine is free to everyone in New Zealand. Do not share your bank details with anyone offering you the vaccine for a fee. Report a COVID-19 vaccine scam We’re committed to putting in place the right systems and services, so it’s easy and convenient to get a COVID-19 vaccine. You will get your vaccine at or near the place you work. The people you live with will be invited to get their vaccine at a range of places. You will get your vaccine at or near the place you work. You will get your vaccine at or near your facility. Different options will be available, including community clinics and pop-up centres. We will offer different options to make getting a vaccine as easy as possible. These include: If you need to travel outside of New Zealand, you can apply for an early COVID-19 vaccine on compassionate grounds or for reasons of national significance. Learn more about applying for an early vaccine COVID-19 vaccines will be free and voluntary for everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over, regardless of their visa or citizenship status. Any information collected will not be used for immigration purposes. During 2021, we will be supplied enough vaccines for everyone in New Zealand and the Pacific to be protected against COVID-19. The Government is committed to upholding and honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi. Partnership, tino rangatiratanga, options, equity and active protection are all a strong focus. While all health providers are responsible for vaccinating the Māori and Pacific people in their communities, we know Māori and Pacific providers hold trusted relationships with the whānau they serve. These providers will play an important part in making sure Māori and Pacific people get vaccinated. We will partner with Māori and Pacific providers so they can deliver tailored and targeted approaches to their communities as part of the wider COVID-19 vaccination programme rollout. The Government has committed dedicated funding and resources for Māori and Pacific providers and communities to prepare for this. We’re looking for extra vaccinators to support the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. If you’re a retired health professional or not currently working in the health workforce and want to volunteer, visit the Ministry of Health's website to register your interest. Register your interest in being a vaccinator (external link) At this stage, it isn’t clear how the availability of vaccines here and around the world will influence changes to New Zealand's border controls. We know the vaccines protect individuals from the effects of the virus. However, it's too early for researchers to confirm whether a vaccinated person could still transmit COVID-19 to someone else. Until we know for sure, we need to keep our current border settings. Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up for our COVID-19 vaccine newsletter Ministry of Health information about getting a vaccine (external link) How COVID-19 vaccines are being developed Last updated: 30 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. COVID-19 vaccines are free and voluntary for everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over It doesn't matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Any information collected will not be used for immigration purposes. The first people to be vaccinated are people working at the border or in MIQ, and the people they live with (household contacts). People in Group 1 can get early access to a vaccine because border and MIQ workers are most at risk of contracting COVID-19. Vaccinating this group first will also potentially reduce the risk of transmission in the community. How vaccination appointments work You are in this group if you: Find out if you are in the Counties Manukau DHB area (external link) (external link) (external link) People in Group 2 can get early access to a vaccine because: How vaccination appointments work You’re in this group if you are: People in Group 3 can get early access to a vaccine because: We are not currently offering the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine to people under 16. You’re in this group if you’re aged 16 or over. Group 4 are being vaccinated from July because, before we vaccinate the wider population, we need to protect the people who are: Everyone will have the opportunity to protect themselves, their whānau and our communities. Find out about the COVID-19 vaccines we're using Vaccine safety and side effects The actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. Last updated: 31 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There’s never been this level of global collaboration amongst scientists and governments in vaccine development. This increased collaboration among scientists and governments has helped speed up vaccine development and clinical trials. Vaccine companies have been sharing their data all over the world, which has also led to a number of innovations, such as the use of the messenger RNA (mRNA) technology. Dr Ashley Bloomfield on the safety standards of the Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine In New Zealand, applications for all new medicines (including vaccines) are assessed by the New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority (Medsafe). Medsafe is responsible for regulating all medicines and medical devices in New Zealand. They are part of the Ministry of Health. So COVID-19 vaccines can be made available as early as possible, Medsafe is streamlining its processes and assessing these vaccine applications ahead of normal applications. Medsafe is: Learn more about vaccine research and development (external link) How COVID-19 vaccines are approved Ministry of Health information about COVID-19 vaccine safety and approval (external link) Last updated: 10 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Symptoms include: These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: A health professional will advise whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting if you have any symptoms. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Information about testing for COVID-19 Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. People can catch the virus through their eyes, nose or mouth. Scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. People may get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that have been touched by an infected person, or if droplets have settled there. People could also get infected if droplets remain in the air for a few minutes, or longer. While it is unlikely people will get infected this way, the risk becomes higher: That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, at any time. Last updated: 21 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms Locations of interest for the Auckland border-related cases are available on the Ministry of Health website. For contact tracing purposes, anyone who attended one of the locations listed during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a contact. Out of an abundance of caution, we are asking individuals to follow the instructions in the table if they visited these locations during the relevant times. Remember to check what type of contact you are, and what you should do. Locations of interest in Auckland, and what you need to do if you're a contact (external link) If you need a test, you can get one at: Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. If you've been told you should get a test, COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This applies regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not be charged for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that your results can be sent to you. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it’s helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by Healthline or your doctor that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not be charged for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. When you are tested, you will be told how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will advise you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive If you need to be tested for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than 1 way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they’re testing. Detailed assessment and testing information from the Ministry of Health (external link) The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border (external link) Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes data on: This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Last updated: 8 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you’re unsure if you should get a test, call your doctor, Nurse Practitioner, or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Search for a testing location near you (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. They will tell you what to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you are feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus spreading to others, and make sure you’re well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained on cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely monitor your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making all necessary arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It’s up to you and your family/household to decide: A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. On arrival, you will be provided with a ‘welcome pack’ with information about what to expect during your stay. You will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments, so you don’t need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you’re unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or for any COVID-19 related medical costs. The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that didn’t need hospital care, this will be: If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment.  Last updated: 28 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on gathering sizes. We encourage voluntary and not-for-profit sport and recreation facilities and events to display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to assist with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you’re sick, stay home. When exercising in public, keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know if possible. You can do activities like: At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Community sports are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. A sports field can have multiple defined spaces by keeping: We recommend groups be prevented from intermingling or sharing common facilities at the same time. For example, a game of rugby can occur so long as there are no more than 100 people on the field. If that field has a stand on either side, up to 100 people can gather in each stand if they are kept separate from those from the other stand and from players and umpires on the field. Organisers and the person in control of the premises are responsible for collecting contact tracing information. Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link)  Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Gatherings, events and public venues Exercise and recreation is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, there's a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others, touch common equipment or surfaces, or need rescuing or medical care. You can do activities that are local and safe. Only exercise alone or with the people in your bubble. You need to keep a 2 metre distance from people who are not in your bubble, and you are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. The most important thing is to stay safe. Do low-risk activities, so you don’t need rescuing or medical care. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you’re experienced you can do more activities. These include: Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. What is not allowed: Stick to your local area. For example, go to your nearest beach or park, not your favourite one. You cannot stay overnight at a bach or holiday home. If you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2 metre distance from others, go home — go out later. We recommend driving as short a distance as you can and still do the activity. Find detailed information about sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. Hunters cannot stay in DOC huts or campgrounds under Alert Level 3 and hunting must also be consistent with the usual local area restrictions. This is not the time to take up hunting as a new hobby. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you want to go fishing you can do so from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. You can fish for whitebait at Alert Level 3 during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and do not use motorised vehicles to get to your fishing spot. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge, and do not enter the water or use a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it’s close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. Last updated: 15 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Last updated: 8 June 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If someone in your whānau dies: Choosing a funeral director is an important decision to make after someone dies. You do not have to use a funeral director if you do not want — you can organise everything yourself if you want to. If you decide to use a funeral director, we recommend this being be one of the first things you organise. If the person has died from: You might not be able to say goodbye to a loved one, in the way you ’re used to, and this could be very challenging. Read through the basic advice on mental wellbeing and call or text 1737 . Talk with a trained counsellor, for free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Looking after your mental wellbeing There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 1. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold one. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help in contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, up to 100 people in each defined space can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. The organiser legally must ensure that contact tracing requirements are met. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: More information about gatherings and events Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals, tangihanga and burials are allowed at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people in the same bubble may go to view the tūpapaku, the person who has died, by appointment with the funeral director. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in groups of up to 10 from the same bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. No food or drink can be served, and physical distancing should be maintained between people. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga we recommend still keeping 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. The general guidance for avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. At Alert Level 3 there are strict restrictions in place for travel between regions. This is necessary to reduce the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel into or out of a region at Alert Level 3 for a funeral or tangihanga you will need to apply for an exemption. Regional travel Last updated: 15 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it’s important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in keeping New Zealand well. For more information about New Zealand's flu campaign, and to see if you’re eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu (external link) Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. Cancer screening programmes are continuing to operate, with appropriate safeguards in place to keep participants and staff safe. It is recommended that people over 70, or with pre-existing medical conditions, confirm with their health professional if it’s safe to attend appointments. Cervical and breast screening will continue for most women. The decision to screen those with existing medical conditions will be made on a case-by-case basis. Bowel screening invitations and home testing kits will continue to be sent out. If you receive a kit in the mail, complete it and send it back as soon as possible. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) It’s important that anyone with health concerns contacts Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. Seek medical advice if you’re unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. Last updated: 27 August 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance. If your life or property is threatened, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong, get gone”. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) Last updated: 14 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. If you feel you’re not coping, it’s important to talk with a health professional. Free apps, toolkits and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health has created a contact-tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury District Health Board and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by former All Black and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whānau on the depression.org.nz website. Coping with COVID-19 — from Depression.org.nz (external link) These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practise new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) Last updated: 18 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) Last updated: 8 June 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Everyone’s emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Where to go for help Last updated: 23 July 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support Last updated: 16 July 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. These guidelines will continue to be updated it as more evidence becomes available. You should work with your GP or specialist if you need help understanding your own level of risk and how best to stay healthy. People with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and some older people are at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19. At all Alert Levels, when you leave the house you need to maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) Underlying medical conditions include: Many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including: Older people, in particular those who have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Aged care facilities are susceptible to the rapid transmission of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. See information on visiting an Aged Residential Care facility Overseas experience has shown a disproportionate impact from COVID-19 on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of adverse outcomes from COVID-19, particularly where there exists: People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your GP or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking (external link) We recommend pregnant women in their third trimester take extra precautions and keep themselves well at a time when the growing baby means higher oxygen demands on the mother. If you are pregnant and work in areas where there is high risk of exposure to COVID-19, for example some healthcare settings, you should discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for working differently if needed. If you cannot safely work at your workplace, and cannot work from home, you need to agree what your leave from work and pay arrangements will be with your employer. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) At Alert Level 1 it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about doing a risk assessment in your workplace to look at what the risk is for you and how it can be reduced. At Alert Level 2 there is some freedom to move around and connect with close family, whānau and friends. If you are an at-risk person, you’ll need to take extra precautions when doing this. Things you can do to stay safe: There is more detailed guidance available for people who are at higher risk of COVID-19 at Alert Level 2. This guidance includes advice on shopping, work, socialising, travel and recreation: Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 69 KB] There is more detailed guidance for people who are at higher risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. This includes people who are aged 70 and over and/or have certain existing health conditions, which may put them at risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. Find out the list of health conditions and the guidance on how you can live your life as normally as possible, including work and enjoying safe activities, without compromising your health and wellbeing at Alert Level 3. You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will be modified to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your general practitioner if you need further help understanding your own level of risk. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] Last updated: 28 July 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes wherever you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Using the app will help our health services reach people quickly to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. Please wear a face covering whenever you're on public transport, including flights. Keep your community safe, and cover for each other. Washing your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. It will keep the virus off your hands, so you won’t spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. Keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. Maintain physical distancing Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean it first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. Last updated: 15 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. For most people face masks are not recommended. Face masks play an important role in clinical settings, such as hospitals. For people with symptoms of an acute respiratory infection, there may be benefit in wearing a face mask to reduce the spread of infection to other people. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them getting onto your hands. Put any used tissues in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. If other people touch these surfaces they may get sick. Last updated: 8 June 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find information about contact tracing: Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. The app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you’ve been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Find out more about Bluetooth tracing If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of the 3 Ws: NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet    To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) track down people who may have been exposed to the virus. This process is called contact tracing.  More about contact tracing at the Ministry of Health (external link) There are several types of ‘contacts’: The Ministry of Health gives advice to all these types of contacts on what they need to do. Close contacts or close plus contacts are those who are likely to be at a higher risk of being infected. If you have been identified as a close contact or close plus contact of someone with COVID-19, the Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit will contact you. Advice and actions for close contacts or close plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual plus contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact. For casual plus contacts, their contact was where there is higher risk for transmission. In some specific higher-risk situations, the Ministry of Health may contact you if you are a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact or a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest at a certain time, depending on the circumstances you may be classed as a contact. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes: You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Last updated: 25 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you’ve been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when a case of COVID-19 is detected, and stop the virus from spreading. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to: Version 4.1.0 includes some new features that make the app faster, easier to use and more useful. The new features include: Scan QR codes at businesses, services and events with NZ COVID Tracer to create a private digital diary of the places you visit. If you visit the same place — at around the same time — as someone who later tests positive for COVID-19, you will receive an alert through the app with information on how to stay safe. Scanning QR codes keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. When you’re out and about, and you see a QR code, open your NZ COVID Tracer app. Tap ‘Record a visit’ if it isn't already open. Point your phone at the QR code so it fits within the target area on your screen. Your phone will vibrate and a tick will appear to show you have successfully scanned the code and the entry has been saved. Tap on the text box if you want to add any further details such as who you were with or what you were doing. Then tap ‘Finish’ or ‘Okay’ to close the screen. There is no need to sign out of a place with the app when you leave. You can add a manual entry to your digital diary if you cannot scan a QR code. You can also view and edit your diary at any time. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. Bluetooth tracing is not intended to replace scanning QR codes. You still need to scan QR codes to keep track of where you’ve been. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people we’ve been near. To turn on Bluetooth tracing: Watch a video describing how to turn on Bluetooth tracing (external link) Once you have turned Bluetooth tracing on, it lets your phone exchange anonymous random keys with other nearby phones that also have Bluetooth tracing turned on. It’s like your phone is giving digital high-fives to other phones you are near. The Bluetooth tracing function records how close the other phone was, and for how long. You do not have to have the app open for it to work. If you or another app user in your community tests positive for COVID-19, a Bluetooth alert can be sent to quickly notify any other app users who have been in close contact. This alert will advise you on what to do to keep yourself and your whānau safe. Watch our Bluetooth tracing video on this page to see how it works. Bluetooth tracing is entirely anonymous. No personal or identifying information is exchanged between phones, and Bluetooth tracing cannot be used to track your movements. This means no one will ever see who you’ve been near, or when or where you were near them, even if you test positive for COVID-19. How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Taking a minute to register your personal information and contact details makes it easier for contact tracers to reach you if they need to. This is optional but strongly recommended. Register your information in the ‘My data’ section of the app. How to register your information (external link) If you need to visit a COVID-19 testing station, it's helpful to have your National Health Index (NHI) number with you, as this can help speed up the process. An NHI number is a unique identifier that is assigned to every person who uses health and disability support services in New Zealand. Save your NHI number in NZ COVID Tracer by going to the ‘My data’ screen and tapping on ‘My NHI details’. Where to find your NHI number if you do not know it (external link)    Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own paper notebook. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of the 3 Ws: Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet If you have questions or feedback about the app or any problems using it: Information about privacy and COVID-19 (external link) At all Alert Levels, you legally must display a NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster if you are a: Get your QR code poster Alternative contact tracing systems for people who do not use the app Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you’re ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you’d like a booklet and cannot print your own. If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. How to use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet: Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link)  Last updated: 22 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Physical distancing, sometimes known as ‘social distancing’, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and aren’t family/whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Even if you’re wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. However, it’s still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help minimise the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. What we can do: You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you’re feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. Outside of your home, you legally must keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times, as much as possible. Workers legally must maintain 1 metre physical distance in the workplace, as much as possible. Last updated: 21 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you’re helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. Symptoms include: These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. COVID-19 symptoms Staying at home if you’re sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you’re waiting for COVID-19 test results, and have been told you need to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If somebody you live with develops cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms they should call their regular health professional. If they do not have a regular health professional they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re unwell, we recommend not sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you’re feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can be opened. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible and keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. While you’re unwell, do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. It's okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. We recommend also avoiding visiting others if you’re unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, we recommend washing them thoroughly with soap and water, putting them in the dishwasher for cleaning, or washing them in the sink. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but we recommend not preparing food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate to others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house, both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for hand-hygiene purposes. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. We recommend doing your own laundry. Dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person can be washed with other people’s items. Do not shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide a supply of laundry items to you. If you do not have a washing machine, wait until you’re no longer unwell before taking your laundry to a laundrette. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment.  If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. Last updated: 15 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol, and rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially: Always wash your hands: You can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. As long as you use soap, cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. Last updated: 15 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. A face covering helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are only 1 part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We encourage you to wear face coverings when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded indoor places, like in supermarkets. At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 2, when not on public transport, we recommend you consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to keep your distance from other people. Face coverings do not need to be worn: You also do not need to wear face coverings if: Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you think you need an exemption card, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, Healthline will talk through other options with you. If you prefer, you can download a card from the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ, or contact them on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz Download exemption card for face coverings (external link) When you wear a face covering, it's important you use it safely. How to wear a face covering safely Most people can use non-medical-grade face coverings. These face coverings prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others and could help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade face coverings can be either single-use or reusable. Non-medical-grade face coverings do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade face coverings online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to rush out and buy one. You can use another kind of covering, like a bandana, scarf or t-shirt. How to make a face covering At raised Alert Levels, people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are advised to avoid contact with the public. If you need to go out, and feel you are vulnerable, you may wish to discuss with your health provider whether using a medical mask is best for you. Medical masks are made to be used by healthcare workers. These masks provide a protective barrier between the healthcare worker and the people they are treating to reduce transmission of infectious diseases. They are used in combination with other measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing when required. They are not reusable and must comply with the standard AS 4381:2015, or international equivalent. Surgical masks are worn by healthcare professionals during healthcare procedures. They generally have a higher level of quality testing and are designed to reduce fluid splash and transmission of infectious diseases. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical and surgical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical, surgical and N95 (or equivalent) masks are available for healthcare workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. Find 2 ways of making a face covering: How to make a face covering Last updated: 23 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Take a clean piece of cotton material — for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase. Cut into a square, if it's not already. Fold it from the top inwards a third of the way down. Fold from the bottom inwards, a third of the way up. You should have an rectangle of material, folded into 3 layers. Loop your hair ties or elastic bands over the ends of the folded material. Leave enough room in the middle to comfortably cover your mouth and nose. Fold the outer edges inwards. This adds an extra layer of material over your mouth and nose. It also helps hold the face covering together. Pick up the face covering by the bands. Loop them over 1 ear at a time. Wear the face covering with the join against your face. Make your own face covering with just a handkerchief or t-shirt and 2 hair ties. Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut out a rectangle from the water-resistant fabric for the middle layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take 1 piece of your cotton fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it doesn’t catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of cotton fabric together. Make sure the cotton that will be on the outside of your face covering is turned inwards here. Lay the water-resistant fabric on top of your cotton fabric. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face covering in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. Last updated: 7 October 2020 at 11:59 pm Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Never share face coverings with other people. We do not recommend face coverings be worn by: Do not re-use a mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. Make sure it is: Before you put on your face covering, clean and dry your hands. Use either: Place the face covering over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face covering should: Use either: If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your face covering down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: Take your face covering off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the face covering, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth face coverings by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the face covering completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp face covering. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face coverings. Use either: The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face covering safely. Last updated: 7 October 2020 at 11:59 pm Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: We can look after our physical health by: If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support Last updated: 14 August 2020 Get support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Looking for information in other languages? Information in 20+ languages Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Information on travelling to New Zealand or leaving New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. How to plan your travel to New Zealand and what will happen when you arrive. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Information about leaving your house, local travel and regional travel. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about registering with SafeTravel, how to travel to New Zealand and border controls when you arrive. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you can not get home. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can use international air services to travel home. There may, however, be limited commercial options available. If you’re unable to secure a ticket, please contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. You may be required to self-isolate when you get home, so it’s best to check it now. Embassies will be able to help you find information. You may find that you are not allowed to transit through certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they can let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, so make sure you book your flight before you arrive at the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours before departure. You are responsible for understanding how to meet the conditions of your visa in New Zealand at all times. Verify the details of current New Zealand visas (external link) Most visitor visas due to expire between 4 September and the end of October 2020 have been extended by 5 months from the expiry date of their current visa The Government is also going to introduce a new COVID-19 short-term visitor visa to help temporary migrants who are unable to leave New Zealand due to international travel restrictions when their current visa expires. Information for all travellers, student visa holders, migrant workers and employers (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand (external link) Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals in New Zealand Last updated: 22 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas  If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand You are strongly advised to check requirements with your airline and your destination before travelling to Australia. You can travel from New Zealand to some states in Australia without needing to quarantine there if you have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more and have not been in a designated COVID-19 outbreak location. You will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may still require you to quarantine when you arrive. You will need to complete an Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart for Australia. The Australian Government has more information on: Make sure you check the requirements you need to meet with the Australian Government and with your airline. These can change at short notice. Guidance on travelling from New Zealand to Australia (external link) From 19 April, you can travel to New Zealand from Australia without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Normal immigration rules apply, and you will have to meet some eligibility criteria to travel quarantine-free. Travel from Australia to New Zealand — quarantine-free travel If you do not meet the eligibility criteria, you will need to enter managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. You may have to pay for your stay. Before booking your flights, you need to register for a voucher to secure your place in a managed isolation facility. Managed isolation and quarantine in New Zealand (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link)  Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) Last updated: 6 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you're in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: More help from SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands and Niue can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. From 19 April, people in Australia can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Quarantine-free travel Plan your travel to New Zealand It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link)  Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Last updated: 6 November 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Information on travelling to New Zealand or leaving New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. From 19 April, you can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. You can travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Information in Niuean about quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand. Fenoga nakai nofo puipui mai Niue ki Niu Silani | Quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. If you're travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Currently, quarantine-free travel is also available from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. However, this does not mean there is a "travel bubble" between New Zealand, Niue and the Cook Islands. If you want to travel from Niue to the Cook Islands by transiting through New Zealand, you will have to stay in New Zealand for 14 days before you can travel onwards to the Cook Islands, and you have to be eligible to travel there. You could travel from New Zealand to Australia without needing to quarantine there if you have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more and have not been in a designated COVID-19 outbreak location. You will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may still require you to quarantine when you arrive. You will need to complete an Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart for Australia. Make sure you check the requirements you need to meet with the Australian Government and with your airline. These can change at short notice. Guidance on travelling from New Zealand to Australia (external link) If you’re in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine free, you must meet the following conditions: Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face covering at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility for 14 days. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. If you’re travelling to New Zealand quarantine free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. You can find information on this website. About the Alert Level system Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu This announcement does not affect you if you are already in a managed isolation facility. You will still need to complete your 14 days, and meet any fees for your stay. Last updated: 29 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Teretere Noʻoʻanga ʻAkapaeʻanga-kore mei te Kūki ʻĀirani ki Aotearoa | Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand You can travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. If you're travelling quarantine free from the Cook Islands to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from the Cook Islands are likely to be New Zealand or Australian citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. You must be in the Cook Islands when you apply. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) Quarantine-free travel is available from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. If you’re from the Cook Islands and you wish to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the relevant entry requirements of your onwards destination. If you’re in the Cook Islands and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine free, you must meet the following conditions: Departures from Rarotonga International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You will need to wear a face covering on your flight. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at Rarotonga Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility for 14 days. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from the Cook Islands do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Cook Islands arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from the Cook Islands. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from the Cook Islands. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Cook Islands arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed, or if you have to enter isolation when you return. If you’re travelling to New Zealand quarantine free from the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go, so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be available when you arrive. Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. You can find information on this website. About the Alert Level system Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, but there is no date for this yet. The Cook Islands Government must approve all people who want to travel to the Cook Islands. To get approval to travel, you must: Who can travel to the Cook Islands, and conditions you must meet (external link) You can also email the Cook Islands Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Immigration at immigration2@cookislands.gov.ck This announcement does not affect you if you are already in a managed isolation facility. You will still need to complete your 14 days. Last updated: 11 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. From 19 April, you can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in Australia. What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in New Zealand. This is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. When travelling to Australia, you’ll need to keep track of the COVID-19 situation and play your part in stopping any spread back to New Zealand. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we’d handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, such as timing and location, it’s useful to know what to expect. This is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. For example, case linked to the border — there is low risk of further transmission. Flights to and from Australia likely to continue. Follow local health instructions. Keep a record of your movements. If you’re unwell, stay home or in your accommodation. Get a COVID-19 test if you have any symptoms. For example, case of unknown source, but most likely linked to the border. State enters a short-term lockdown. Flights to and from affected state or states may be paused for up to 72 hours. Follow instructions from the state you're in. If you're unwell or have symptoms, get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline, and check your travel insurance. When returning to New Zealand, travellers from affected state may be asked to: For example, multiple cases of unknown source. State enters longer-term lockdown. Flights to and from affected state or states may be suspended for an extended period. Follow instructions from the state you're in. If you're unwell or have symptoms, get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline, and check your travel insurance. When returning to New Zealand, travellers may be asked to: What to do when you arrive in Australia, including local COVID-19 websites and COVID-19 tracer apps Last updated: 6 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in New Zealand. Who can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand, criteria you must meet and how you need to be prepared if your travel is disrupted. What to expect at the airport when you depart, while travelling and when you arrive in New Zealand. While you’re here in Aotearoa New Zealand, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your family and the communities you’re visiting safe from COVID-19. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. While you’re here in Aotearoa New Zealand, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. We strongly encourage travellers from Australia to understand how New Zealand is responding to COVID-19, and the rules and techniques we use to keep each other safe. You can find information on this website. About New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert system Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you’ve visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. There will be a QR code at the airport that you can scan to get the app. Download NZ COVID Tracer, and how to use it All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. This means you can receive an alert through the app if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. If you register your contact details in the app, health authorities can contact you if you may have been exposed. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of the 3 Ws: You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you’re offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you're helping keep everyone safe. COVID-19 symptoms include: COVID-19 symptoms New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to any quarantine-free travel arrangement being paused for a time. The New Zealand Government may pause it while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Talk to your travel insurer about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption or illness. Have a plan for what to do if your return to Australia is delayed. You may need to be prepared for a longer stay in New Zealand than you planned. You may need to meet any costs for this — check with your travel insurer. You should also be prepared for the possibility of entering managed isolation or self-isolation on your return to Australia. If you book tickets to come to New Zealand and then your eligibility changes, you will need to check the terms of your ticket and travel insurance to see if you can get a refund. An example of your eligibility changing is if you test positive for COVID-19 in the 14 days before your travel date. Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check them regularly for updates that may affect you. Follow our social media Check with your airline for any changes to your travel conditions. Check Smartraveller.gov.au for information about travelling safely and what to do if you need help while in New Zealand. Smartraveller.gov.au (external link) If you're travelling back to Australia, find out what you need to do before you travel and what to expect while you're travelling. Travelling from New Zealand to Australia — quarantine-free travel Last updated: 6 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will need to complete a health declaration at the airport before you depart. Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) If you are unwell, you should not travel. Stay at home, and call a doctor for advice. At the airport, your airline will decide whether you should be allowed to board. Make sure you bring evidence of any pre-existing conditions when you check in, to avoid being denied boarding. Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight to New Zealand, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in New Zealand, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You may need to go into a managed isolation facility. If you do, you may need to pay for your stay there. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. We recommend you wear a face covering while you’re in the airport. All travellers from quarantine-free flights, or ‘green flights’, will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation and quarantine. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you’re in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We strongly encourage travellers from Australia to understand how New Zealand is responding to COVID-19, and the rules and techniques we use to keep each other safe. You can find information on this website. About New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert system New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You’ll need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. What to do during your stay in New Zealand, including how to keep yourself, your family and friends, and the communities you're visiting safe. After you arrive in New Zealand Last updated: 6 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. From 19 April, you can travel from Australia to New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Travellers from New Zealand can already enter some states in Australia without having to go into managed isolation. To travel to New Zealand quarantine-free you need to have spent 14 days in either Australia or New Zealand before you travel. You are able to visit each country for any length of time and are not required to stay for 14 days. All other normal entry requirements, for example immigration and biosecurity, apply. Quarantine-free travel is only available when the New Zealand Government’s health preconditions have been met and when travel is low risk. Quarantine-free flights are sometimes called ‘green flights’. A green flight coming to New Zealand from Australia only carries passengers who have been in Australia or New Zealand in the past 14 days. These flights will also be flown by crew who have not flown on any high-risk routes for a set period of time. A ‘red flight’ carries passengers from countries outside of a quarantine-free travel arrangement, or from within a quarantine-free area with passengers that do not meet the eligibility criteria. Red flight passengers must enter managed isolation or quarantine when they arrive in New Zealand. When quarantine-free travel to New Zealand begins, people in Australia who meet the eligibility criteria can fly quarantine-free to New Zealand. If you’re outside Australia, you can fly quarantine-free to New Zealand once you have met Australia’s managed isolation and quarantine requirements. You will also need to meet immigration rules and eligibility criteria. Currently, quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Australian and New Zealand citizens may travel between Australia and New Zealand. All others must hold a visa or New Zealand electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Visas to enter New Zealand from Australia (external link) Travellers from Australia who are citizens of other countries may need to apply for a visa or complete an NZeTA. Citizens from other countries can also apply for a visa to enter New Zealand. If you require a visa in order to travel to New Zealand, you can apply for one, provided you are in and intend to travel from a quarantine-free travel area when you apply. For example, if you intend to travel directly to New Zealand from the Cook Islands, you must be in the Cook Islands to apply for a visa under normal immigration requirements. Any visa granted for travel from within a quarantine-free travel area will only be valid for travel from within the quarantine-free travel area. If you travel outside of New Zealand or a quarantine-free travel area you will not be able to use this visa to re-enter New Zealand. For example, if you are granted a visa in Australia and then travel to Fiji, your visa will not allow you to re-enter New Zealand from Fiji. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You must complete an online travel declaration before you travel from Australia. This declaration is being finalised and will be available from 14 April. Please ensure you return to this website before you travel to complete the declaration. You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. The New Zealand Government has signalled that if there are community cases of COVID-19 in Australia and flights are paused, it may require people travelling to or returning to New Zealand to get tested for COVID-19 before travelling. If there is a change in Alert Level in New Zealand or the situation changes in Australia, Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and news websites will announce it. You can also find information here about what to do at different Alert Levels. If community cases occur in New Zealand or Australia, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted.  Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to Australia is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You may also need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to Australia. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If you're about to return to New Zealand from Australia and the COVID-19 situation changes, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. If quarantine-free travel is paused or suspended while you’re in mid-flight and you’re required to go into managed isolation on arrival, you will be found a place and you will not have to meet the costs of your stay. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from Australia, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in New Zealand if required. You need to ensure you can meet the entry criteria for Australia on your return. Immigration information at Department of Home Affairs — Australian Government (external link) Once quarantine-free travel begins, you will not be able to register for a voucher or book a place in MIQ. Quarantine-free flights will be excluded from the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you already have an MIQ booking and you are now travelling on a quarantine-free flight into New Zealand, please cancel your voucher. This frees up space for returnees from other countries. If you are not sure if your flight is quarantine free, talk to your airline.  If you're arriving from Australia just before quarantine-free travel begins, you will still need to go into managed isolation and complete the full 14 days. Last updated: 9 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in Australia. Who can travel quarantine-free to Australia, criteria you must meet and how you need to be prepared if your travel is disrupted. What to expect at the airport when you depart, while travelling and when you arrive in Australia. While you’re in Australia, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you’re visiting safe from COVID-19. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. COVID-19 information for travellers arriving in the green travel zone — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and call a doctor for advice. If you want to talk to someone about your symptoms, call the National coronavirus and COVID-19 vaccine helpline on 1800 020 080 . Calls are free from Australia. You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There is an Australia-wide contact tracing app, but most states and territories in Australia use their own apps. Download and use the app for wherever you are to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you’re visiting safe. You can download and use most of these apps with a New Zealand SIM card. You may need an Australian SIM card or Australian contact details to use some of these apps. We recommend you keep the apps on your phone for up to 1 month, in case you receive an alert after you've left the state. Download contact tracing apps: If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with your own pen and paper, a photo record or you could take a copy of the NZ COVID Tracer booklet with you. Keep track of the 3 Ws: Download My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Each state or territory has its own rules, for example for gatherings, physical distancing, face coverings, testing and travel. Check the website of the state you’re in to find out what you need to do when you’re there. State and territory COVID-19 websites If you forgot to register at SafeTravel before you left New Zealand, we encourage you to do so now to get travel advice for Australia. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: Register at SafeTravel (external link) If there is a change in Australia’s COVID-19 situation, for example cases in the community, check the COVID-19 website for the state or territory you’re in. They will tell you what you need to do. State and territory COVID-19 websites You should also check the Australian Government Department of Health website for advice. Department of Health — Australian Government (external link) Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check this website, your local COVID-19 website and news sources regularly for updates that may affect you. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we'd handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, like timing and location, it's useful to know what to expect. Here is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in Australia for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in Australia, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in Australia if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. Visit the Department of Health website for the latest advice, information and resources. Department of Health — Australian Government (external link) If you need information about COVID-19, call the National coronavirus and COVID-19 helpline for free on 1800 020 080 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. To find out the requirements for COVID-19, travel conditions (including domestic travel) and information about testing, visit the website for the state you’re in. Information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to New Zealand's or Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check them regularly for updates that may affect you. Follow our social media Check with your airline for any changes to your travel conditions. If you're travelling back to New Zealand, find out what you need to do before you travel and what to expect while you're travelling. Travelling from Australia to New Zealand — quarantine-free travel Last updated: 6 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. We recommend you wear a face covering while you’re in the airport.  If you are unwell, you should not travel. Stay at home, and call Healthline for advice on 0800 611 116 . At the airport, your airline will decide whether you should be allowed to board. Make sure you bring evidence of any pre-existing conditions when you check in, to avoid being denied boarding.  Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering on the flight. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in Australia, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless you're exempt, you’ll need to wear a face covering while you’re in the airport. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) You may be screened for your health when you arrive in Australia. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. You will not come into contact with travellers from other countries. Check what you need to do for your next destination. Some states and territories may have requirements you need to meet, or may tell you to quarantine when you get there. Travel information about COVID-19 by state or territory:  Last updated: 6 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can already travel from New Zealand to most states in Australia without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. From 19 April, travellers from Australia can travel to New Zealand without having to go into managed isolation. All other normal entry requirements, for example immigration and biosecurity, apply. All states and territories are participating in quarantine-free travel with New Zealand. On 9 April 2021, the Western Australia Government confirmed it is participating in quarantine-free travel with New Zealand from 19 April. Travellers from New Zealand do not need to quarantine when they arrive in Western Australia, but will still be subject to strict conditions. Travelling quarantine-free from New Zealand to Western Australia (external link)  People in New Zealand who meet the eligibility criteria can fly quarantine-free to most states in Australia. If you’re outside New Zealand, you can fly quarantine-free to Australia once you have met New Zealand’s managed isolation and quarantine requirements. You will also need to meet immigration rules and eligibility criteria. Currently, quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Which states and territories are accepting quarantine-free travellers from New Zealand Normal immigration rules apply. This means if you usually need a visa, then you will need one to fly quarantine-free to Australia. If you do not already have a visa, you will need to apply for one. If you plan to travel to Australia and return to New Zealand, you will need to make sure you meet the visa and entry requirements for Australia before you travel and ensure you have a valid New Zealand visa or NZeTA to return to New Zealand. If you're a temporary visa holder in New Zealand, you should be aware that you need to meet New Zealand immigration requirements in order to return to New Zealand. This means you need to have a ‘multiple entry’ visa that gives permission to leave New Zealand and return, provided all entry requirements are met. Any visa granted for travel from within a quarantine-free travel area will only be valid for travel from within the quarantine-free travel area. If you travel outside of New Zealand or a quarantine-free travel area you will not be able to use this visa to re-enter New Zealand. For example, if you are granted a visa in Australia and then subsequently travel to Fiji, your visa will not allow you to re-enter New Zealand from Fiji. Visas to enter Australia (external link) To travel to Australia on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet some criteria. It is your responsibility to check the eligibility criteria for entering Australia. You will also need to check that the state or territory you want to land in, or travel onwards to, is accepting quarantine-free flights from New Zealand. The requirements for entering Australia could change at short notice. Requirements for travelling to Australia from NZ — Australian Government (external link) Check the restrictions of Australian states or territories You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to travel to Australia on a quarantine-free flight. Australia has sometimes introduced requirements for testing on arrival for people travelling from New Zealand. You should regularly check the requirements of the state you're arriving in. Australia’s states and territories may have their own restrictions and requirements, for example for pre-departure testing. Check what you need to do and what you need to know before you travel. You should also check what you need to do if you are travelling between states in Australia, as you may need to meet some requirements. Travel information about COVID-19 by state or territory:  We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for Australia. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: Register at SafeTravel (external link) If there is a change in Alert Level in New Zealand or the situation changes in Australia, Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and news websites will announce it. You can also find information here about what to do at different Alert Levels. If community cases occur in New Zealand or Australia, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we'd handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, like timing and location, it's useful to know what to expect. Here is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed If there is a change in Australia’s COVID-19 situation, for example cases in the community, check the COVID-19 website for the state or territory you’re in. They will tell you what you need to do. Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in Australia for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in Australia, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in Australia if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. Over 400,000 passports belonging to New Zealanders have expired since our borders closed last year. If you need to renew your passport, apply now to avoid the rush when quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and Australia opens on 19 April. Apply for a passport (external link) Processing times may be longer than usual. If you need to travel same day or within 2 days, call 0800 22 50 50 from within New Zealand or +64 4 462 0650 from overseas.  Last updated: 12 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) You should check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link)  Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Last updated: 21 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Due to a current surge in cases of returnees, New Zealand is temporarily suspending entry to travellers from India. This will take effect from 4pm (NZT) on 11 April 2021 and remain in place until 28 April. Travel from India suspended temporarily The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands and Niue can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. From 19 April, people in Australia can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Quarantine-free travel If you’re travelling to New Zealand from the US or UK, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. For travellers from other countries (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands), this came into effect after 11:59pm (NZT) on Monday 25 January. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link)  Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. We recommend you contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. Contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from or transiting through areas affected by border measures. Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessels can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visa information for critical workers in the maritime sector (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: More help from SafeTravel (external link) Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. From 19 April, you can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility in either destination. Quarantine-free travel with Australia You can now travel from the Cook Islands or Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands or Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands or Niue, but there is no date for this yet. You will not be able to go to the shops when you first arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. What to bring with you to New Zealand (external link) Keep yourself, your whānau and those around you safe while travelling to New Zealand. Doing these things will help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it home with you. What happens when you arrive back in New Zealand depends on whether you arrive by air or sea. Arriving in New Zealand and being transferred to a managed isolation or quarantine facility (external link) Entering a managed isolation facility, and what to expect (external link) When you arrive by air, you will be screened for cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms at the airport. If you have symptoms or are waiting for the results of a test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to a managed isolation facility. Both types of facilities are in hotels. When you arrive by sea, you may complete your isolation on your vessel. International transit through New Zealand Last updated: 9 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. While our borders are closed, New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have a legal right to come home. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. People are tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1, day 3 and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave. People are exempt from a day 0/1 test if they arrive from Australia, Antarctica or most Pacific islands. Over 68,000 people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. When you arrive in New Zealand you are screened for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link)  Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. We have put in place a robust system for exemptions from managed isolation. Releases from managed isolation are only issued in very limited circumstances, and where the public health risk is low and can be managed. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website, run by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE), has information about exemptions, including: Exemptions from managed isolation and how to apply (external link) Last updated: 20 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. You will be invited to do the survey if you’ve recently arrived in New Zealand and you’re 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you’re having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after they have sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz Last updated: 5 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Pre-departure testing is one of the ways we are reducing the risk of infection on international flights. Who does, and who does not, need to get a pre-departure test before arriving in New Zealand. Approved test results and certificates, finding a testing location and what to do if your flight is cancelled or delayed. What you need to present to officials, and day 0/1 testing after you arrive in New Zealand. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You are responsible for bringing your test results or medical certificate to the airport and providing the required information. Without the information you may be denied boarding and be subject to an infringement fine. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: Either a hard copy or an electronic copy (email/text message) of your negative test result, or a Fit to Fly Certificate, will be accepted. A text message will be accepted only if it includes an image of the laboratory result form. Hold on to all documents and treat your negative test results and Managed Isolation voucher with the same importance as your passport — you may be asked to show these as you transit and on arrival in New Zealand. Pre-departure testing is an additional measure to further reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases in New Zealand, in line with our elimination strategy. It is complementary to existing testing requirements, such as day 0/1 testing, and does not duplicate them. Travellers to New Zealand are required to undergo day 0/1 testing within 24 hours of arriving at a managed isolation and quarantine facility. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands are exempt from day 0/1 testing. If you’re asked for evidence of your negative COVID-19 test result or a medical certificate, and you cannot provide it, you may be denied boarding. You will be asked to provide this information to a Customs officer when entering New Zealand. All travellers arriving in New Zealand after 8 February 2021 without evidence of a negative approved test may incur an infringement offence fee or a fine not exceeding $1,000. The pre-departure test is a measure to keep us all safe. Most airlines already require travellers to have a pre-departure test and provide evidence of a negative result before boarding a plane. Pre-departure tests are also a legal requirement for most countries that are transit hubs. Last updated: 4 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. On 20 January, the Ministry of Health confirmed the following types of tests are acceptable by the New Zealand Director-General of Health: All tests must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. If you choose to take an at-home COVID-19 test, it must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: You should also check the requirements of other countries you are going to be transiting through. They may have requirements that are different to what New Zealand requires. Learn more about the Ministry of Health testing requirements (external link) If you are unable to take a test for medical reasons you are required to provide a medical certificate. A Fit to Fly Certificate will be accepted as proof of pre-departure testing documentation if it is consistent with both the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order requirements and the subsequent Gazetted requirements regarding pre-departure testing. Acceptable Fit to Fly Certificates must contain the following six elements: If your test result record does not provide this information, you may be prevented from boarding the aircraft. Please ensure this information will be provided to you by your testing facility when you get tested. You can get tested at a range of airports, or from private laboratories. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. You should contact the local health authority of the country that you are in for information about COVID-19 testing locations and booking arrangements (if available). Most health authorities advertise COVID-19 testing locations on their websites. If you have a positive pre-departure test, but believe this is because of a historical COVID-19 infection, you need to see a medical practitioner who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not currently have a COVID-19 infection, you will need them to provide a medical certificate with the date of your previous positive test (if applicable) and documentation stating that they consider you as no longer being infectious with COVID-19. It may take time to get an appointment, so if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3 months, book your medical examination in advance of receiving your test results. You should also check with your airlines about any regulations they may have in place regarding past COVID-19 infections. If you test positive, you may not be able to board your flight. You should postpone your travel and follow local public health advice. If you choose to travel at a later date when you have recovered, you will be required to get a medical certificate within 72 hours from the time of departure that confirms that you had a positive COVID-19 test but have now recovered. If your negative test result does not arrive in time for your flight, you can reschedule your flight for no more than 24 hours later, even if this takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled time of your first flight. If your flight is cancelled, the requirement would remain that you need to have had a test with a negative result no more than 72 hours before departure of your new flight. If your flight is delayed by 24 hours or less and you have a negative result, you can still travel, even if it takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first flight. You need to keep a record of your original scheduled flight for presenting to airline staff and Customs officers. Travellers are responsible for testing costs. You should work with airlines to rebook your flights, and contact Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) about your placement. MIQ is working hard to accommodate travellers that might be impacted by the new testing requirements. If you are impacted by the pre-departure testing requirements you should work with your airline to rebook your flights and contact MIQ for information about your MIQ placement. Contact MIQ about your placement (external link) If you need consular assistance, contact the Embassy, High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. What happens after you arrive in New Zealand, like presenting your test results to officials and getting a day 0/1 test when you enter a managed isolation facility. After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Last updated: 4 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has been monitoring overseas developments and is concerned about high rates of infection and new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. This additional measure reduces the risk of infected travellers on international flights infecting other travellers. The Government now requires all travellers to New Zealand (except those from exempt locations) to have a COVID-19 test taken and a negative result returned within 72 hours of their first scheduled international flight. If you are planning to travel to New Zealand soon, it is a good idea to work out how you will be able to get your pre-departure test results within 72 hours of your departure. Contact your airline for more information about flights and any pre-departure requirements. Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. Children under 2 years of age (24 months) do not need to take a pre-departure test. Children over the age of 2 (24 months) will need evidence of a negative pre-departure test. Locations included are Antarctica, Australia, the Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Palau, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna. Locations included are Albania, Belize, Dominica, Kenya, Laos, Montenegro, Myanmar, Slovenia, St Kitts and Nevis, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. These locations are exempt as they are unable to provide pre-departure testing for travellers to the standard required by New Zealand. Instead, travellers from these locations must obtain a certificate from a suitably qualified health practitioner (or a person who is registered or licensed as an equivalent health professional overseas). This needs to be obtained no more than 72 hours before the journey begins confirming they do not have symptoms which indicate that they are likely to transmit COVID-19. Travellers need to produce this certificate when requested by the following: All arrivals from these locations are still required to complete 14 days in managed isolation. They are also subject to day 0/1, day 3 and day 12 testing during their stay If you cannot take a test due to medical reasons, you will need to see a medical practitioner within 72 hours of your departure. They will examine you for symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not have symptoms of COVID-19, they will need to provide you a medical certificate stating you cannot take a test due to medical reasons but do not have symptoms. This will be accepted as meeting the pre-departure testing requirements. If you have a positive pre-departure test, but believe this is because of a historical COVID-19 infection, you need to see a medical practitioner who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not currently have a COVID-19 infection, you will need them to provide a medical certificate with the date of your previous positive test (if applicable) and documentation stating that they consider you as no longer being infectious with COVID-19. It may take time to get an appointment, so if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3 months, book your medical examination in advance of receiving your test results. You should also check with your airlines about any regulations they may have in place regarding past COVID-19 infections. If you have received a COVID-19 vaccination you will still need to take a test. If you return a positive result, you will need a medical certificate verifying that you are not infectious with COVID-19. You should factor this into your timings, and check with your airlines on any regulations they may have in place regarding vaccinations. What you need to do before you travel, including getting an approved test result, finding a testing location and what to do if your negative test result does not arrive in time. What to do before you travel — pre-departure testing Last updated: 10 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Due to a current surge in cases of COVID-19 in returnees, New Zealand is temporarily suspending entry to travellers from India. This is a temporary suspension until we are able to better manage the current situation. We are investigating options to manage this risk moving forward. The suspension will take effect from 4pm (NZT) on 11 April 2021 and will remain in place until 28 April. This suspension is intended to apply to New Zealand citizens, residents, temporary entry visa holders, and transit visa holders who have been in India within the past 14 days. A person has been in India even if they were only transiting through. Please contact your airline directly to find out how this affects your flights, and to book a new flight. We encourage you to check the Managed Isolation Allocation System for available MIQ spaces after 28 April, when the suspension is due to be lifted. There are currently a number of spaces available in the system. Please cancel your original voucher and book a new one to match your new flight. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) If you cannot book a space in managed isolation, contact MIQ at flightchanges@miq.govt.nz Include evidence of your original flight and voucher, and details of your proposed new flight. Humanitarian exemptions will be considered on a case-by-case basis and decisions will be made by the Director-General of Health. Exemptions for humanitarian reasons may be granted by the Director-General of Health. Decisions will balance the risk of a person’s travel to and arrival in New Zealand causing an outbreak or spread of COVID-19, and the impacts of that, against the humanitarian impact on the individual concerned. To be eligible for a humanitarian exemption, applicants must: The following are unlikely to be considered for humanitarian exemption: Applicants who believe they meet the criteria for humanitarian exemption should apply for an emergency allocation voucher via the Ministry of Business Innovation and Employment (MBIE). MBIE will work with the Ministry of Health to determine whether a humanitarian exemption can be granted. MBIE will advise applicants of the outcome. Apply for an exemption and emergency allocation voucher (external link) Last updated: 12 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Information about leaving your house, local travel and regional travel. Advice for when you leave your house including how to lower the risk of transmission. Advice for travelling locally, including public transport, how to travel safely and other ways of travel. Advice for travelling between different regions of New Zealand. Alert Level boundaries are important to stop the virus spreading. Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Travel across Alert Level 2 and 3 areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. You may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. Advice for travelling in, out and through an Alert Level 3 area to return to your primary residence. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel between Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 regions for business reasons needs to check whether they are permitted to travel. A person may go in or out of an Alert Level 3 area but only if that travel is permitted under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order or you have an exemption granted by the Director-General of Health under that Order. You or your employer need to make sure you have evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary.   If your business or service is permitted to travel across the boundary under the Order, you can register to get a Business Travel Document as evidence of your right to travel across the boundary. This will make crossing the boundary quicker and easier. People crossing the boundary should also have a form of photo ID. Other evidence of your purpose of travel is also acceptable. Register your permitted travel (external link) If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you can apply for an exemption. Exemptions will be limited to critical activity only. Requests will need to meet criteria and many requests will not be approved. Apply for a business travel exemption for critical activity (external link) If you want to cross the boundary for personal reasons, you will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Health. More information about exemptions for personal travel Last updated: 27 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings You can leave your house and gather with as many people as you want at Alert Level 1. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings We encourage you to use face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, for example in supermarkets. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, it's important that you follow public health measures and consider others. Do everything you can to reduce the risk of transmission. Exercising safely There are times when it's important that you not be out and about. You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, take extra care when you leave your house. Guidance for at-risk people At Alert Level 3, we recommend people stay at home as much as possible except for exercise, going to work or school, or visiting local services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness should you contract COVID-19, you need to be especially careful. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 More information about exercising safely You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings Staying close to home is one of the most important things we can do to reduce the risk of spreading the disease. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered “local” will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. You can exercise at parks or beaches within your region, but the closer to home the better. Be safe while out exercising. Keep 2 metres away from anybody not in your bubble. Make minimal trips. Most of all during this time, we encourage you to continue to connect with one another. Stay in touch with your older relatives and vulnerable people, talk to your friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone and see if they need your support. Acts of kindness and maintaining these connections is essential while we work to stop the spread of COVID-19. Last updated: 23 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear a face covering At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way: Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk on public transport: You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services. Face coverings on public transport information You can use a private vehicle for transport. Please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine. Keep a 2 metre distance from other pedestrians. Take extra care if you need to step out into the street as there will be more traffic at Alert Level 2. If you’re healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Guidelines when travelling by taxi or ride-share: At Alert Level 3, travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise.  You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people, like in shops. Do not travel outside of your region unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Personal travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Business travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. You can use public transport to travel within your local area, but only for the following reasons: You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services. Face coverings on public transport information We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your bubble. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services for only for the following reasons: You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Your driver must wear one. To help limit the spread of any virus, we recommend those who are unwell stay at home. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . All driver licences, warrants of fitness (WoFs), certificates of fitness (CoFs) and some vehicle certifications that expired on or after 1 January 2020 were extended until 10 October 2020. This recognised that during Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3, through no fault of their own, many New Zealanders were unable to keep these documents up to date. This extension allowed vehicle users extra time to allow them to get up to date. As well as general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. If you're a passenger, sit in the rear passenger seats only — avoid sitting in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you’re the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle. Most cars normally have 3 rear passenger seats. You’re encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing services in Auckland legally must wear a face covering. If you are a passenger in a taxi of ride-share, we strongly encourage you to wear a face covering. Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information if not already provided, for example, electronically through an app or booking system. More details about transport restrictions (external link) Last updated: 23 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Anyone wanting to travel between areas at different Alert Level areas needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. A person may go only into an Alert Level 3 area from another Alert Level area, or go out of an Alert Level 3 area into another Alert Level area, if that travel is permitted. Permitted travel is described in the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order (no.4) 2021. Anyone wanting to travel into or out of an Alert Level 3 for personal reasons needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. If your reason for travelling isn’t permitted, you may need to apply for an exemption. Before applying you need to consider whether: You can apply for an exemption online. A high number of applications may be submitted, so please be patient. The Ministry of Health will respond to you as soon as possible.  Apply for personal travel approval through the Ministry of Health (external link)   Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings If you’re living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you've been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering If you're sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP or Nurse Practitioner to find out if you should get a test. If you're advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses If you’re living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you’re sick, please don’t travel at all — stay home and get tested. Do not travel: You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Travel into, out of or through an Alert Level 3 area is restricted. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we can keep our loved ones and communities safe. Anyone wanting to travel between Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 regions needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you may need to apply for an exemption. Before applying you need to consider whether: The Ministry of Health and MBIE have developed online registration systems to support requests for business, service and personal movement across an Alert Level boundary. At Alert Level 3 you can only travel locally, and for allowed reasons. For example, going to work or school if you must, or for shopping or to get exercise. Advice for travelling locally Last updated: 22 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can leave an Alert Level 3 area to return to your primary residence. This applies to people travelling in private vehicles or on public transport. This also includes going to the airport to catch a flight home. You must carry the following evidence: You can return to your primary residence in an Alert Level 3 area if you are currently outside the boundary. This applies to people travelling in private vehicles or on public transport. You must carry the following evidence: You can travel directly through an Alert Level 3 area to return home. You should plan your journey so you do not need to stop in an Alert Level 3 area. For example, if you are in Hamilton and your primary residence is in Whangārei you can drive through Auckland at Alert Level 3, without stopping, to return home. You must carry the following evidence: Use our Alert Level boundaries map for the specific boundary lines and for the locations of the police checkpoints. Alert Level boundaries map Before you depart, make sure you plan your trip using the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures on Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner. Use Journey Planner (external link) Police checkpoints will be in place at key locations at the Alert Level 3 boundary, so plan for the possibility of long delays in an out of an Alert Level 3 area: Travel in, out and through an Alert Level 3 area is strictly limited. You can return to your primary residence but travel for other reasons is limited and you may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. At Alert Level 3 flying is permitted for the purpose of returning to your primary residence, with no plan to leave, or as part of essential work. Your airline will advise you if your flight or travel plans are impacted by any Alert Level changes. This includes cancellations. Airline contact centres may be receiving a high volume of calls, so check your airline’s website for more information before you call. There may be increased traffic on the roads, possibly affecting public transport. Check Journey Planner for the latest traffic information and make sure you allow enough to get to the airport. Use Journey Planner (external link) Airports will also be under Alert Level 3 restrictions. This includes: Travel in, out and through an Alert Level 3 area is strictly limited. You can return to your primary residence but travel for other reasons is limited and you may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. If you have returned to your home in an Alert Level 3 area you must follow Alert Level 3 restrictions. Information about Alert Level 3 If you visited an Alert Level 3 area and have returned home, you should follow all of the relevant Alert Level requirements in your area. You only need to isolate if you have been to a location of interest. Find the locations of interest (external link) However, if you have recently been in an Alert Level 3 area and develop any potential COVID-19 symptoms, you must isolate immediately and contact your doctor or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . The symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to common illnesses such as a cold or influenza. You may have one or more of the following: Remember, it's better to act with caution than be complacent about COVID-19. Last updated: 2 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Data and statistics about COVID-19 vaccinations, cases and testing in New Zealand. You can also find data about clusters, locations of interest and managed isolation and quarantine. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Get posters like the QR code poster, hygiene posters, physical distancing posters, and posters for the social sector and healthcare. Resources to help your business operate safely — including posters, signs and contact tracing registers. Resources you can use to help make summer unstoppable. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Information and advice in other formats for disabled people. Information and advice translated into different languages. Useful resources about COVID-19 vaccines and the rollout. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Information and advice in other formats for disabled people. Advice in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information in Large Print and audio formats. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 30 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Information about COVID-19, including symptoms and getting the right information. Information about living at Alert Level 1. Information about getting tested, contact tracing, using the NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth, and personal protective equipment (PPE) Information about available support, and looking after your mental wellbeing. Last updated: 23 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) COVID-19 vaccines (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) COVID-19 vaccination programme (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It's OK to ask for help (external link) It's OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) Last updated: 11 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Call 111 immediately in an emergency. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: Many government agencies have language support available, if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Last updated: 9 November 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Download the summary document of how our vaccine rollout will work. Our COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [PDF, 184 KB] Download this summary document for information about our vaccine plan, vaccine safety, access to vaccines, equity, and vaccine supply. COVID-19 vaccine: Protecting Aotearoa [PDF, 403 KB] Download the illustration. Illustration of volumes and timing of vaccination rollout [PDF, 443 KB] Find out more about the vaccine, what things to consider before getting your vaccine, what happens after your vaccine and potential side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 91 KB] Information about potential side effects and what to do if you get them. After your immunisation [PDF, 85 KB] Easy to read information on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine — simplified version [PDF, 223 KB] The personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccines privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] Advice about the vaccine for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 96 KB] Advice about the vaccination process for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 89 KB] COVID-19 vaccine: Information for the people who live with border and MIQ workers [PDF, 121 KB]  Last updated: 9 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. You can get data on: Current COVID-19 cases (external link) You can get data on confirmed and probable cases by: COVID-19 case demographics (external link) Data on how the virus has spread in New Zealand, for example imported cases, locally acquired but linked to another case, or locally acquired with no known source. You can also get data on clusters of cases. Source of COVID-19 cases (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes data on: COVID-19 testing data (external link) The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. You can get: COVID-19 vaccine data (external link) Data and statistics about managed isolation and quarantine is published by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE). The data includes: Managed isolation and quarantine data (external link) The Ministry of Health collects i nformation on how much people are using the NZ COVID Tracer app. You can get daily data on: NZ COVID Tracer app data (external link) Find more sources of data related to COVID-19, if the data collected by the Ministry of Health is not what you need. Examples include the ESR dashboard, Stats NZ’s COVID-19 data portal and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you’re a researcher. COVID-19 data resources (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Last updated: 7 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 1-10 of 283 updates 12 Apr 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials. 11 Apr 2021 A worker at the Grand Millennium managed isolation facility – who is a close contact of the case reported on Thursday – has tested positive for COVID-19. 09 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Apr 2021 Watch the media conference with the Prime Minister 08 Apr 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 08 Apr 2021 A strategic public health advisory group has been set up to provide independent advice and analysis to the Government. 07 Apr 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Apr 2021 New Zealand’s successful management of COVID means quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and Australia will start on Monday 19 April. 06 Apr 2021 Watch the post-Cabinet media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. This person is being referred to as Case O and is a household contact of Cases I, J, K and L. Case O was transferred to the Auckland quarantine facility on 23 February as a precautionary measure. The person became symptomatic yesterday and returned a positive COVID-19 test this afternoon. This means that Case O has been in quarantine for their infectious period. As a result of the early precautionary measures carried out to contain potential COVID-19 spread from this household there are no new locations of interest and no risk to members of the public. Whole Genome Sequencing will be carried out to confirm a link between Case O and the other cases in the cluster. Update on Case N Preliminary Whole Genome Sequencing results for Case N confirm the case is similar to that of Case M and is linked to the current outbreak. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The case is an airline crew member who returned to New Zealand from Japan on 28 February, and returned a negative COVID-19 result. The person then returned a positive test result today after a swab taken yesterday as part of routine surveillance testing. The person has today moved to Auckland’s quarantine facility. The individual’s 3 household family members have already been tested today and the results are all negative. Fourteen other air crew on the same journey as the latest case are in the process of being contacted, isolated and retested. The latest case was a frequent user of the NZ COVID Tracer app, which is helping public health staff identify potential exposure events and assess any risks from their activities. Any individuals identified as contacts by public health staff will receive specific advice about the steps they need to take. Results from genome sequencing are expected on Tuesday and will help rule out any local transmission. A further update will be provided tomorrow.  The Public Health initial assessment is there is low risk to the public because:  There is currently 1 location of interest — the Auckland Airport Countdown on 3 March between 12:07pm and 1:22pm. Anyone who was at the store at this time is asked to monitor their health for the next 10 days, until 17 March. If you feel unwell or develop symptoms: Testing locations in Auckland (external link) Testing is available at 6 community testing centres throughout Auckland as well as at general practices and urgent care clinics. There is currently good capacity in the testing system, and the community testing centres in Otara in South Auckland and Wiri in West Auckland have additional staff available to meet any increase in demand. There is also 1 health appointment currently being assessed. All those attending the same clinic at the same time are being identified and will be contacted and provided specific health advice.  Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are no new cases in the community. There is one new case of COVID-19 in managed isolation to report today. Update on cases for 10 March 2021 from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 10 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 11 August media conference Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are no new cases in the community to report today. There are 7 new positive cases of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation since the media statement last night. Update on today's cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 12 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Watch the COVID-19 media conference held by government officials and ministers at 4pm. Speakers: Transcript of the 4pm media conference The COVID-19 media conference was held at 10:30am. Speakers: Transcript of the 10:30am media conference Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference. There are no new cases in the community. There is one new positive case of COVID-19 in managed isolation to report today. Update on today's cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 12 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are no new COVID-19 cases to report in the community. There are 3 new COVID-19 cases to report in managed isolation. Update on today's cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 18 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There is one previously reported border-related case of COVID-19 and one further case under investigation currently being managed as an active case. The border-related case was reported yesterday evening. The case under investigation is a household contact of the border-related case. Update on today's cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 23 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are no new community cases to report today. There are 3 new positive cases of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation. Update on today's cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 25 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are no new community cases to report today. There are 3 new positive cases of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation. Update on today's cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 26 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 3pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Update on cases for 1 March from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 3 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are no new COVID-19 cases to report in the community. There are two new COVID-19 cases to report in managed isolation. One of these cases is historical and deemed not infectious. Update on cases for 3 March from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 3 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference. There are no new COVID-19 cases to report in the community. There are 6 new COVID-19 cases to report in managed isolation. Update on cases for 4 March 2021 from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 4 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are no new cases of COVID-19  to report in the community today. There are no new cases to report in managed isolation. Update on cases for 5 March 2021 from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 8 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are no new COVID-19 community cases to report today and 7 new positive COVID-19 border-related cases in managed isolation since our last update on Tuesday. Update on today's cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 8 April 2021 at 4:30 pm Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference. Prime Minister's media conference — 8 April 2021 (external link) There is one new border-related positive COVID-19 case, in a worker at the Grand Millennium managed isolation facility. The worker returned a positive swab after being tested on Tuesday. The person returned high CT values which can mean it is either early on in their infection, nearing the end, or the case is historical. An urgent repeat test is being carried out today to give health officials a better understanding of this person’s infection. Whole Genome Sequencing will be carried out. Further to the 1 new border-related COVID-19 case from the Grand Millennium managed isolation facility, there are 19 new positive COVID-19 cases in managed isolation to report today. Update on today's cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers:  Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Two weeks ago the Government set out the COVID-19 vaccine roll-out plan — beginning with those most at risk of getting and spreading COVID-19 and those most at risk of getting seriously sick from it. The Government has carefully considered circumstances where there is a genuine need for people to be vaccinated urgently in order to travel outside of New Zealand. A high threshold has been set, which will balance compassion with the need to avoid potential queue jumping ahead of at-risk groups, without a strong justification. These provisions will not extend to vaccinations for new arrivals or returnees. Even before people will be considered, they will need to satisfy a series of criteria, including being a New Zealand citizen, resident or visa holder; needing to travel before 31 August 2021; and having already made arrangements for returning to New Zealand. People should also ensure they will be able to receive both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine prior to their departure. The compassionate grounds that would be considered for travel overseas include: This does not include reuniting with family, attending a funeral or memorial service, or attending a school or university. National significance overseas travel will include representing New Zealand: The key yardstick here is people travelling in an official capacity and ensuring their participation is in our national interest. We also expect these requests will need to be made by the appropriate agency or association on behalf of the individual, not by individuals themselves. It does not include private or recreational travel. The final consideration is the level of risk travellers will be exposed to COVID-19 in the destination country. Underlying these decisions is a fundamental recognition that while where there are legitimate urgent reasons to travel overseas, it is also in all our interests to ensure New Zealanders are protected against COVID-19 to the best extent possible when travellers return home. Further information about the new criteria and application process for an advanced vaccine request will be available in the coming week, before applications open 31 March. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A top priority this year is to make sure everyone in New Zealand aged 16 years and over will get free, fair and equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines. The Government is targeting those most at risk of getting and spreading COVID-19 and those most at risk of getting seriously sick from it in the next phase of the vaccine rollout. We are setting out the plan today after securing enough Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine for everyone in New Zealand to get the two doses they need to be fully vaccinated against the virus. The Ministry of Health is working with Pfizer on a delivery schedule to ensure a smooth rollout and a scaling up of our vaccination programme. Over 2 million people are in line to start receiving the vaccine over the next four months with a focus on protecting those most at risk of getting the virus or being harmed by it, while also reducing the chance of ongoing spread and future outbreaks. Our plan is clear – first protect those most at risk of picking up the virus in their workplace, reducing the risk of future outbreaks and lockdowns and then protecting those most at risk of getting seriously ill if they get the virus. Our sequencing plan provides certainty to the over 2 million people who can expect to start being vaccinated during the initial stages of our roll-out over the next 3-4 months. This is a balanced plan that prioritises reducing the chance of future outbreaks while protecting our elders, those with underlying health conditions and those who live in locations where we know outbreaks have occurred. We are asking everyone in New Zealand to get vaccinated. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect your whānau, their lives and their livelihoods. Everyone in New Zealand will be able to get a vaccine and the vaccine will be free. The rest of the population will be able to be vaccinated from July onwards and our plan is to have as many people as possible vaccinated by the end of the year. As with the rest of our COVID-19 response we will make continuous improvements and adjustments to the vaccination roll-out. Our goal is to get as many people vaccinated as quickly as possible and that will require some flexibility within the sequencing. Further planning is underway on our ongoing response to COVID-19 including our management of the border. However the biggest factor in lifting COVID-19 restrictions will be a timely and high uptake of the vaccine. There are four main groups (timings will overlap, and dates might shift slightly as the Ministry continues to undertake modelling): Our 50,000 border and MIQ workers, their household contacts and the people they live with. This started last month and the vast bulk will be completed this month, with at least one dose administered. Approximately 480,000 frontline workers and people living in high-risk settings. Starting with the 57,000 healthcare workers on community frontlines, and then moving through to healthcare workers protecting our most vulnerable and some priority populations. This started in February and will continue through to May. Priority populations. Approximately 1.7 million people who are at higher risk if they catch COVID-19. This is planned to start in May. The remainder of the general population – approximately 2 million people. Starting from July. Approximately 40,000 courses are being allocated to Māori and Pacific providers who are working directly with older people, and we are also recognising the special circumstances of South Auckland. Anyone who lives in the Counties Manukau DHB area who is 65 and older or who has an underlying health condition is also in Group 2. This recognises that there are many border operations and MIQ facilities and their workforces based in this area. There will be a range of options to make it as easy as possible for people to access to the vaccine. Workers and residents of long-term residential care environments will get the vaccine at their workplace. There will also be Māori and Pacific providers, pop-up centres, GPs, medical and hauora centres, community clinics and larger scale events. There are two further categories we are still looking at: one for people who may need to get a vaccine on compassionate grounds; and a national significance category, which could include groups who need a vaccine in order to represent New Zealand overseas. Decisions around these categories will be made at Cabinet in coming weeks. An online tool that helps people find out when they can get the vaccine will be launched shortly. It describes the four broad groups and will take people through a series of questions to work out when it’ll be their turn. Group  Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. The Government has signed an advance purchase agreement for 8.5 million additional doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, enough to vaccinate 4.25 million people. The vaccines are expected to arrive in New Zealand during the second half of the year. Government purchases enough Pfizer vaccines for all New Zealanders Last updated: 9 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. "Because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public, with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. I require the following people to do 2 things. This direction applies to the following people: If you need advice accessing financial assistance while you have been directed to isolate at home you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009." Given at Wellington at 1pm Wednesday 12 August 2020 Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director-General of Health Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has signed an advance purchase agreement for 8.5 million additional doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, enough to vaccinate 4.25 million people. The vaccines are expected to arrive in New Zealand during the second half of the year. This brings our total Pfizer order to 10 million doses, or enough for 5 million people to get the 2 shots needed to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The Government’s original agreement with Pfizer was for about 1.5 million doses, enough to vaccinate 750,000 people. The decision to make Pfizer New Zealand’s main vaccine provider was based on the fact the Pfizer vaccine has been shown to be about 95% effective at preventing symptomatic infection. It also means all New Zealanders will have the chance to access the same vaccine. While the Pfizer vaccine does need to be kept at ultra-cold temperatures, this challenge is offset by only having to deal with one vaccine, rather than multiple vaccines with multiple protocols. It will make our vaccine rollout simpler. This purchase marks a significant milestone in New Zealand’s fight against COVID-19. We can take heart that we’ve now secured one of the strongest and more effective tools in the COVID-19 toolkit. With every person who gets vaccinated, New Zealand gets 1 step closer to moving away from restrictions to manage COVID-19. This is a significant addition to our COVID-19 vaccine portfolio. It indicates our confidence in the vaccine’s performance to date and our demonstrated ability to administer it. The Ministry of Health is now working with Pfizer on a delivery schedule for these additional vaccines, which will ensure a smooth rollout and a scaling up of our vaccination programme as we start to immunise the general public from the middle of the year. Consideration is also being given to how best to use vaccine doses that do not end up being needed in New Zealand. We are working on options for donating surplus doses across our wider portfolio to the Pacific and developing countries worldwide. We are committed to ensuring that any doses not needed in New Zealand are put to good use elsewhere. Options could include delaying delivery to New Zealand in order to free up supply for other countries in the short term, or donating spare vaccines to other countries. We are also working closely with the Realm countries Niue, Tokelau and the Cook Islands, as well as our close neighbours Samoa, Tonga and Tuvalu to provide access to our vaccine portfolio and provide wider support for vaccine rollout. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government is acting to ensure decisions on responding to the next phase of the COVID-19 pandemic are informed by the best available scientific evidence and strategic public health advice. New Zealand has worked towards an elimination strategy which has been successful in keeping our people safe and our economy in good shape. One of our strengths has been our commitment to constantly learn and adapt. The next phase of the pandemic poses significant challenges, including the emergence of new variants, but it also provides us with new opportunities. As the COVID-19 vaccine programme ramps up in the second half of the year, the Government will face a number of decisions regarding our border and public health settings. A strategic public health advisory group has been set up to provide independent advice and analysis to the Government, informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling on these future decisions. The Government will be seeking their advice on issues such as how much of our population needs to be vaccinated before we can relax our border settings, evidence for transmission blocking properties of the vaccine, strategic public health controls when the borders reopen and public health responses to any new variants that aren’t covered by our current vaccine options. The Ministry of Health will support the Group’s work and share any information that would be useful to them. The Group will work alongside Sir Brian Roche’s COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group, especially around health protections post vaccine. The members will also have a public facing role. Once advice has been considered, they will need to communicate the science behind any changes to New Zealand’s border settings. The Group will report to the Minister for COVID-19 Response, Chris Hipkins via Associate Minister of Health (Public Health) Dr Ayesha Verrall, who will be meeting the members regularly. The Group is chaired by Professor Sir David Skegg, and is made up of the following members: Sir David is a highly respected epidemiologist and public health physician. He has served as a special adviser to Parliament’s Epidemic Response Committee during the COVID-19 pandemic. Sir David has also been an advisor to the World Health Organization in Geneva for more than three decades. Dr Nikki Turner is a specialist in immunisation, primary healthcare and preventative child health. Professor Philip Hill is an epidemiologist with expertise in infectious diseases and research. Dr Maia Brewerton is the lead clinician at the Department of Clinical Immunology and Allergy at Auckland Hospital. Dr Ella Iosua is a biostatistical expert at the University of Otago. Professor David Murdoch is an infectious diseases expert and the Dean of the University of Otago, Christchurch. Rodney Jones and Professor Shaun Hendy have been appointed as Special Advisors to the Group to assist with any modelling work that’s required. Professor Hill is also a member of the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. He will be instrumental in making sure the two groups complement each other and their priorities align. The Group’s term runs until 1 June 2022. Download Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] Sir David is an epidemiologist and public health physician. Sir David has been the Chair of the Preventive and Social Medicine at the University of Otago, Health Research Council, the Public Health Commission, and the Science Board and has been an advisor to the World Health Organisation in Geneva for more than three decades. More recently, Sir David served as a special adviser to Parliament’s Epidemic Response Committee during the COVID-19 pandemic and has also been called as a witness by the equivalent select committee of the UK House of Commons. Associate Professor Turner is an academic and General Practitioner, specialising in immunisation, primary healthcare and preventative child health. Associate Professor Turner is the Director of the Immunisation Advisory Centre (IMAC) and an Associate Professor in the Division of General Practice and Primary Health Care, University of Auckland. Associate Professor Turner represents the Royal New Zealand College of General Practitioners in child health and is a health spokesperson for the Child Poverty Action Group. She is also a member of the World Health Organization Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization and Chair of the Measles and Rubella elimination subcommittee. Dr Brewerton is a specialist in allergy, clinical immunology and immunopathology and is the lead clinician of the Department of Clinical Immunology and Allergy at Auckland Hospital. She also heads the immunology laboratory at Waitemata DHB. Maia teaches specialists in training at Auckland Hospital and trainee doctors at the Auckland University School of Medicine. She is the incoming Chairperson of the New Zealand Clinical Immunology and Allergy Group (NZCIAG). Professor Hill is a medical practitioner and epidemiologist who brings expertise in public health and infectious diseases, research skills, and international health experience to the Group. Professor Hill holds qualifications in medicine as a specialist infectious disease physician, and holds a doctorate in the epidemiology of tuberculosis. Professor Hill also worked alongside Sir Brian as a member of both the Ministerial advisory committee assembled to oversee the implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy and the Contact Tracing Assurance Committee. Professor Hill worked as a clinical epidemiologist at the Medical Research Council in the United Kingdom, and has been a lead or co-investigator on various grants including with the European Commission, the Canadian Institute of Health Research, and the with New Zealand Health Research Council. Professor Hill now holds the position of Co-Director of the Centre for International Health at the University of Otago and holds the McAuley Chair in International Health. Dr Ella Iosua is a Senior Research Fellow (Biostatistician) in the Biostatistics Centre at the University of Otago, providing expertise to Health Sciences researchers. Dr Iosua collaborates with and provides biostatistical advice to researchers from diverse academic disciplines with diverse levels of statistical literacy at optimally all stages of the research process, including research question articulation, study design, analysis, and inference. Professor Murdoch is the Dean of the University of Otago, Christchurch. He is the co-leader of The Infection Group, the co-director of One Health Aotearoa, a Senior Associate in the Department of International Health at Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, and a clinical microbiologist at Canterbury Health Laboratories. David’s main research interests are the epidemiology, diagnosis and prevention of respiratory tract infections, pneumococcal disease, legionellosis, bloodstream infections, and the role of vitamin D in infectious diseases. Rodney Jones is a Principal of Wigram Capital Advisors, an Asian-based macro advisory firm that provides economic analysis and advice to leading global investment funds on developments in Asia. Rodney has been working as an economist and analyst in Asia for the last 28 years. His focus in that time has on the interaction between banks, the financial system and real economies across Asia. Prior to establishing Wigram Capital Advisors in Hong Kong in 2001, he was a Managing Director and Partner with Soros Fund Management, heading up the research office in Hong Kong from 1994–2000. During this time Rodney was responsible for providing macro analysis and advice on Japan, China and Non-Japan Asia for the Quantum group of funds. He is a graduate of the University of Auckland, New Zealand, with a MA (Hons) in Economics and a BCom. Professor Hendy is a physicist and professor in the Department of Physics and Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship at the University of Auckland, as well as the Director of Te Pūnaha Matatini, a centre of research excellence in complex systems and data analytics. More recently, Dr Hendy supported the government’s response to COVID-19 by leading a team of scientist in the development of mathematical models. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Throughout our response to the unprecedented challenges posed by COVID-19 the Government has been committed to continual improvement, and independent advice has been a really important part of that process. Independent reviews of our contact tracing systems and the implementation of our testing strategy provided useful advice and recommendations. Implementation of those recommendations has left us better protected and better prepared. This new advisory group will formalise that ongoing approach to independent review and improvement. As well as continually monitoring the implementation of previous reviews, the group will be empowered to provide impartial advice on the performance and impact of the whole system and the strategic direction of the response. It will also provide assurances on the performance and settings of managed isolation and quarantine facilities, and on planning for an outbreak, and will review public communications and responses in the community. The establishment of this group builds on other recent changes such as our work before Christmas to reorganise how government agencies operationalising the Elimination Strategy work together to generate stronger alignment between border and health systems. That’s worked well. Today, the new group’s formation, make-up and terms of reference are confirmed. It will start work next Monday 15 March, with a term through to 1 June 2022. The Group will be chaired by Sir Brian Roche, and is made up of the following members: This is a group of highly respected and experienced experts, with strong connections across a number of fields: Sir Brian has extensive governance, leadership and business experience; Mr Fyfe brings a senior business leadership focus; Dr Ryan has decades of public health service with a focus on Pacific Health; Professor Hill is an epidemiologist with expertise in infectious diseases and research; and Dr Bramley brings broad public health and governance experience, along with a Māori health perspective. The Government thanks the members for agreeing to provide their expertise, as it continues to learn and sharpen its response as we enter the second year of COVID-19.  Sir Brian brings extensive governance, leadership and business experience. He has held a number of senior leadership positions across the public and private sectors, including as a senior partner in what is now PricewaterhouseCoopers, as Chief Crown Negotiator for Te Tiriti of Waitangi settlements, as leader of the 2011 Rugby World Cup hosting rights bid and as Chief Executive of the New Zealand Post Group. Sir Brian has also held numerous Board Chairpersonships including with the Auckland Regional Transport Authority, the New Zealand Transport Agency, the Hurricanes Super Fifteen Franchise, and Antarctic New Zealand. Last year Sir Brian jointly chaired an advisory committee to oversee the implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy. In the 2017 New Year Honours, Sir Brian was appointed a Knight Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to the State and business. Mr Rob Fyfe brings extensive business experience including as former Chief Executive Officer of Air New Zealand and as Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson of New Zealand clothing manufacturing company Icebreaker. In the wake of the 2011 Christchurch earthquake he oversaw Air New Zealand’s provision of cheap and flexible flights in and out of Christchurch. He was appointed in 2018 as independent advisor to Government on plans for the re-entry of the Pike River drift. He has previously been General Manager of the Bank of New Zealand and Chief Operating Officer of ITV Digital. Mr Fyfe has been a Director of Jeweller Michael Hill International since 2014, an independent Director of Trilogy International ltd, Chairman of the CEO Board of Star Alliance, a member of the Board of Governors at the International Air Transport Association, a Director of Antarctica New Zealand, and is a current Director of Hammerforce and Advisor to Craggy Range. In the 2021 New Year Honours, Fyfe was appointed a Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to business and tourism. Dedicating over 20 years of service to the health sector, with a focus on Pacific and public health outcomes, Dr Debbie Ryan helped to establish South Sea’s Healthcare in 1999. She served as South Sea’s Clinical Director of General Practice for three years and as Chief Executive Director from 2001 to 2003. She was also Senior Lecturer of the University of Auckland’s Department of Medicine and Community Health and the Ministry of Health’s Chief Advisor of Pacific Health. In 2008 she founded Pacific Perspectives, a consultancy providing Pacific mentoring, strategy, policy and capability development to the public sector. She is a past member of the Governance Group for the Ageing Well National Science Challenge and of the Expert Advisory Group of the Medical Council of New Zealand’s Best Outcomes for Pacific Peoples project. Dr Ryan also has extensive governance experience including Ministerial appointments to Counties Manukau District Health Board, the NZ Lotteries Community Committee, and the Minister’s Education Guardians Group. In 2016 Dr Ryan was presented with a Life Award by the Pasifika Medical Association for her exceptional and outstanding commitment to health service organisation or community. Dr Ryan was appointed as a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit in 2018 for services to the Pacific Community and health. Professor Philip Hill is a medical practitioner who brings epidemiological and infectious diseases expertise, research skills, and international experience, including having worked for six years as a clinical epidemiologist at the Medical Research Council (UK) research unit in The Gambia, working on tuberculosis (TB) and pneumonia projects. He has led or coinvestigated on various grants including with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Global Fund, the European Commission, and the New Zealand Health Research Council. Professor Hill is the first holder of the McAuley Chair in International Health and Founding Director and Co-Director of the Centre for Global Health at the University of Otago, which he established in 2008. He is involved in research projects in Africa, Asia, Europe, South America and the Pacific. Dr Dale Bramley brings public health and governance experience and a Māori health perspective. He is currently Chief Executive Officer of Waitemata District Health Board, the New Zealand Chief Examiner of the New Zealand College of Public Health Medicine and an Adjunct Professor at Auckland University of Technology. He was appointed by the Minister of Health to the Health Quality and Safety Commission Board in 2014, and appointed chair in 2019. Dale also serves as board member of the Well Foundation, Northern Region Alliance and University of Otago Dietetics Programme external advisory board. Dale’s previous board appointments include to the National Health Commission and the National Ethics Committee. Dr Bramley was also a senior lecturer in public health for the School of Population Health at the University of Auckland. Dr Bramley was awarded the International Harkness Fellowship in 2003 and has had over 50 published papers in peer reviewed medical journals. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The test was done as part of routine surveillance testing. The information available indicates the worker is asymptomatic. Further investigation is being undertaken this evening. The managed isolation worker and their immediate household members are isolating at home in Auckland this evening. Additional tests and whole genome sequencing are currently being arranged. Further information will be provided as available. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: Health responses include: “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Because the new case has been self-isolating at home since being identified as a close contact late last week, there is considered to be very little additional risk to the community. They returned an earlier negative test before returning a positive test today. This worker and their partner have this afternoon moved to the Auckland quarantine facility. The results of whole genome sequencing for the case reported late on Thursday have now been received and show a genomic link with a cleaner at the Grand Millennium who tested positive for COVID-19 on March 21 and has been previously reported. The cleaner, known as Case A, and the worker who tested positive last week, are genomically linked to a returnee who arrived back in New Zealand on March 13. Due to this genomic link with the cleaner, Case A, the worker who tested positive last week will be known as Case B. The investigation into how COVID-19 was transmitted to Case B is ongoing. Today’s new case will be referred to as Case C. Case investigations are continuing, and further locations of interest are being confirmed. Early indications are the majority of these contacts will be considered casual only. Details of these locations and information for people who visited them during the relevant timeframes will continue to be updated on the Ministry of Health’s website. The Ministry of Health will also send out push notifications to people who logged on with the COVID Tracer app at any locations of interest. The alert will advise users that they may have been in contact with COVID-19 and direct them to additional information on the website here COVID-19: Contact tracing locations of interest. View the locations of interest (external link) The Ministry of Health’s next update is planned for 1pm on Monday 12 April. Last updated: 11 April 2021 at 8:30 pm Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Answer a short series of questions about your health, location, occupation and life situation. The results tell you which of the 4 main vaccination groups you are in, and when you can expect to get your COVID-19 vaccine. It also provides more information about who is in each group — so if you’re a healthcare worker or work in a long-term residential environment, for example, it will provide an indication when you can expect to get vaccinated. You do not need to provide any information that could be used to identify you, and the information you do provide is not saved once you leave the web page. You can use the tool on mobile, desktop and tablet. It’s in the process of being translated into 24 languages, which will start to appear on the website from today. The web page and online tool will be updated as the vaccine rollout plan scales up. As we move through the rollout of the vaccination programme, we want people to be as informed as soon as possible about when they can expect to be vaccinated. This tool is designed to make that as easy as possible. Use the online tool to find out when you could get a vaccine Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Auckland moved to Alert Level 3 at 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August. Restrictions for Auckland at Alert Level 3 The rest of New Zealand will move to Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A year on, we remember what we achieved together, through our strength and resilience, in "unprecedented times". Last updated: 25 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery.  We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.  Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB] Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The post-Cabinet media conference starts around 4pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The media conference starts around 2:30pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference.  Last updated: 9 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Passengers from Niue can resume quarantine-free travel into New Zealand on Wednesday 24 March NZT (Tuesday 23 March Niue time). Niue has no reported cases of COVID-19 and its stringent border controls mean we can be confident it is safe to commence quarantine-free travel to New Zealand from Niue. Premier Dalton Tagelagi said, “Niue welcomes being able to travel to New Zealand without the need to quarantine. Niue is one of the few countries in the world that is completely free of COVID-19 and we pride ourselves on protecting our people through maintaining our borders and health system. This one-way quarantine free travel will enable Niueans to receive essential healthcare, access education and economic opportunities, and reconnect with their families in New Zealand.” Premier Tagelagi adds that Niue will maintain its current border settings, so only returnees with Government approval may enter Niue and will need to quarantine or self-isolate for 14 days on arrival. Officials of both governments are working towards ensuring all safety protocols and response capabilities are in place for the resumption of two-way quarantine-free travel between the two countries. To be eligible to enter New Zealand, people in Niue must meet particular conditions, including: New Zealand public health officials will be undertaking random temperature checks of passengers on all flights arriving from Niue into New Zealand. Auckland Airport will use a streamlined Safe Travel Path to process passengers arriving quarantine-free from Niue. The Safe Travel Path creates separation from other arriving passengers by giving quarantine-free travel zone flights exclusive use of the international terminal for arrivals processing — with no other arriving flights within 90 minutes either side of the scheduled arrival time. The Safe Travel Path is created by: Find more information about travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The second round of COVID-19 vaccine doses for border and Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) workers is underway, with the first group of workers who were vaccinated 3 weeks ago returning for their final doses. They included Jet Park operations manager Drew Leafa and the Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, Brigadier Jim Bliss. Mr Leafa works at the Jet Park quarantine facility and Brigadier Bliss regularly visits quarantine and managed isolation facilities around the country. Both spoke of their sense of relief at receiving the second dose of the vaccine. ‘It’s good to have the second shot and to be at the Jet Park with some of our frontline staff. It’s important for them to get the vaccine and to add another layer of protection for them and their families and our community,’ Brigadier Bliss says. ‘We have more than 4,000 MIQ staff on the frontline. They are our frontline defence against COVID-19, so across our 32 facilities it’s really important for us that we protect them, look after them so they can all do their job keeping us all safe as a community. ‘From my own experiences in the army, serving overseas, the number of communities that don’t have the opportunity to get vaccinated takes a terrible toll on a population.’ He urged people who were unsure about getting a vaccination to talk to a medical professional, their own families and to read widely about the vaccination itself. Mr Leafa says having his second vaccination was ‘brilliant. I now feel like I have tripled my protection and feel so much better for it. ‘I know there is a lot of scepticism and theories out there, but I know it is going to save you, save your family and save your life,’ he says. So far, more than 500 of the estimated 15,000 border and MIQ workers have received the second dose of the vaccine. About 91% of the border and MIQ workers have received their first vaccination. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. It also enables those affected to be visited immediately at homes or at work by Auckland public health officials. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. On Friday 5 March a Section 70 order was issued. This applies to the following people: These people are required to do three things: Public health officials will also discuss with these people the support available to help them meet these requirements. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand’s successful management of COVID means quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and Australia will start on Monday 19 April. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins confirmed the conditions for starting to open up quarantine free travel with Australia have been met. The Director-General of Health considers the risk of transmission of COVID-19 from Australia to New Zealand is low and that quarantine free travel is safe to commence. Our team’s success in managing COVID-19 and keeping it out over the past 12 months now opens up the opportunity to reconnect with loved ones and resume Trans-Tasman travel. One sacrifice that has been particularly hard for many to bear over the past year has been the separation from friends and family who live in Australia, so today’s announcement will be a great relief for many. The bubble will give our economic recovery a boost and represents a world leading arrangement of safely opening up international travel while continuing to pursue a strategy of elimination and keeping the virus out. We have worked hard to ensure travel is safe and that the necessary public health measures are in place. Quarantine free travel will not be what it was pre-COVID-19, and those undertaking travel will do so under the guidance of ‘flyer beware’. People will need to plan for the possibility of having travel disrupted if there is an outbreak. Just as we have our Alert Level settings for managing cases in New Zealand, we will also now have a framework for managing New Zealanders in the event of an outbreak in Australia, which involves three possible scenarios: continue, pause, suspend.  To ensure New Zealand remains on top of COVID-19, the Government has added further layers to manage risk at the border. To be eligible to travel to or from New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, people must not have had a positive COVID-19 test result in the previous 14-day period and must not be awaiting the results of a COVID-19 test taken during that period. When those in Australia decide to come to New Zealand, they will be making a booking on a green zone flight. That means that there will be no passengers on that flight who have come from anywhere but Australia in the last 14 days. They will also be flown by crew who have not flown on any high risk routes for a set period of time. Passengers will need to provide comprehensive information on how they can be contacted while in New Zealand, complete a pre-departure health declaration and won’t be able to travel if they have cold or flu symptoms. When they fly, they will be required to wear a mask on their flight, and will also be asked to download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app while in New Zealand. On arrival, passengers will be taken through what we call the green zones at the airport – meaning there will be no contact with those who are arriving from other parts of the world and going into managed isolation or quarantine. We will also be undertaking random temperature checks of those arriving as an added precaution. Final infection control audits for airports in particular are occurring over the next two weeks and are a requirement for each airport to operate. The Ministry of Health expects to have completed these and to have reported on them on 16 April.  It is estimated the bubble will free up 1,000 to 1,300 rooms per fortnight within Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ). Of these, we will retain roughly 500 spaces as contingency should they be needed for the Trans-Tasman arrangement. We also have a small number of facilities that we consider to have only been suitable for travelers in quarantine from low risk countries. With the opening of travel, we will look to decommission these facilities – but in the meantime we are considering whether they could be used for other low risk countries, such as the Pacific Islands. As a result of this, we do not anticipate a large number of vacant quarantine spaces to come on stream. There will, however, still be thousands of spaces in MIQ for Kiwis. That’s how we have helped 130,000 safely return home through our managed isolation facilities. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are no new COVID-19 community cases to report today and five new COVID-19 border-related cases to report in managed isolation. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are no new cases in the community. There are six new cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation to report today. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are no new cases in the community. There are 7 new positive cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation to report today. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are no new cases of COVID-19 in the community. There are two new positive cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation to report today. The seven-day rolling average of new cases detected at the border is three. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are no new community cases to report today. There are 6 new positive cases of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are no new COVID-19 cases in the community to report since yesterday evening when we reported the community case, Case O. There is one new case of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There is one new COVID-19 case to report in managed isolation and one historical case — this case has recovered. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are no new COVID-19 community cases to report and 11 new COVID-19 border related cases to report in managed isolation. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are no new COVID-19 community cases to report and 2 new COVID-19 border related cases to report in managed isolation. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are no new COVID-19 community cases to report today, and two new COVID-19 border-related cases to report in managed isolation. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are no new cases of COVID-19  to report in the community today. There are no new cases to report in managed isolation. The total number of active cases in New Zealand is 68. Our total number of confirmed cases is 2,033. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are no new COVID-19 community cases to report today and 17 new positive COVID-19 border-related cases in managed isolation since our last update on Sunday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are no new COVID-19 cases to report in the community. There are 9 new COVID-19 cases to report in managed isolation. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are 5 new cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation to report today. One border-related case reported last night will be officially added to today’s tally. There are no new cases in the community. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are no new COVID-19 community cases to report today and 6 new positive COVID-19 border-related cases in managed isolation since our last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are four new positive cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation to report today. One of the four is historical and deemed not infectious. There are no new cases in the community. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. For the most up-to-date information about our managed isolation and quarantine facilities visit the managed isolation and quarantine website. Get information about: Managed isolation and quarantine website (external link)  New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Immigration NZ has the most up to date information on the border exception criteria and process (external link) Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Managed Isolation and Quarantine (external link) Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. Advice on staying healthy Looking after mental wellbeing (external link) Last updated: 29 October 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz (external link) as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A vaccination centre has been set up in East Tamaki as our immunisation programme ramps up and we start vaccinating the estimated 50,000 household contacts of our border and MIQ workforce. Initially, about 150 people a day will get vaccinated at the clinic, but these numbers will increase rapidly over the coming week. Today, 10 vaccinators have been on site, including some who have been vaccinating border workers in the past few weeks. At this stage, we’re vaccinating people who have been invited to attend the clinic. Two other large-scale vaccination centres will open in the coming weeks — one in west Auckland and the other in central Auckland. We’re also partnering with some Māori and Pacific NGOs to set up smaller community-based vaccination clinics in south Auckland to support our rollout to household contacts of border and MIQ workers. Air New Zealand employee James Fogasavaii’s parents and sister headed to the vaccination clinic this morning for their first COVID-19 vaccination. “I think it’s important for my family itself just to protect them from the COVID that’s happening around the world. I think it’s vital that they do get it and it will be good so that we can be advocates for our community, especially for church, just to spread the word that it is important to get this vaccination done,” James Fogasavaii said. “It’s an extra protection for our family and for our community so it’s good to get the vaccination done.” James’ sister, Denise Fogasavaii, agreed that it was vital for family members of border workers to also get vaccinated. “Level Four was hectic for us because (James) had to isolate separately from our family, especially when we’ve got vulnerable people at home as well. I’ve got my parents, my aunty and my uncle, so it was important for me to actually get it as well. “I know a lot of our old people are probably scared of getting the vaccine but getting it today, it doesn’t hurt, and it is important for everybody to get it.” Their father, Sa Fogasavaii, was grateful for the opportunity to get vaccinated. “It’s good for you, guys, everybody, for your life, your kids — if you love your kids, come and do it.” Another household contact is Aaron Te Moananua, whose partner works at MIQ. He was keen to encourage everyone to get vaccinated. “Living with someone who works in the borders and just putting my family in safe arms, just makes me comfortable getting this injection today. “If you’re unsure, just talk with people like myself who have got it done before. You don’t know until you get here and like I say, the nurses will make you feel welcomed and feel like there’s nothing to worry about. So yeah, whānau, come along and get the jab.” The next stage in the rollout would be vaccinating our approximately 55,000 frontline health workers. From mid-year, the general public will be able to get their vaccinations, including at large-scale vaccination clinics like these. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 11-20 of 283 updates 01 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Mar 2021 COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins and Associate Health Minister Ayesha Verrall talk about getting their first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. 30 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials. 25 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Mar 2021 11:59pm on 25 March 2020 was the moment when Aotearoa went into Alert Level 4, the highest level of lockdown, to contain the initial COVID-19 outbreaks. 24 Mar 2021 There will be strict criteria for early vaccinations for people who need to leave New Zealand on compassionate grounds or for reasons of national significance. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 21-30 of 283 updates 24 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 23 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 22 Mar 2021 An online tool to help you work out which vaccination group you are in is now available on our website. 22 Mar 2021 The Ministry of Health is reporting this evening a positive Covid-19 test result in a managed isolation worker at the Grand Millennium Hotel, Auckland. 17 Mar 2021 The second round of COVID-19 vaccine doses for border and MIQ workers is underway. 17 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 16 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 Mar 2021 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and the Premier of Niue Dalton Tagelagi have announced passengers from Niue can resume quarantine-free travel into New Zealand. 12 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 241-250 of 283 updates 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 251-260 of 283 updates 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020  12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 261-270 of 283 updates 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 271-280 of 283 updates 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 10 Jun 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 281-283 of 283 updates 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 31-40 of 283 updates 11 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 10 Mar 2021 The Government has today announced its plan for the rollout of the COVID-19 vaccines, ensuring free, fair and equitable access to everyone in New Zealand. 09 Mar 2021 New Zealand’s first large-scale COVID-19 vaccination clinic has opened today for the rollout’s official start to vaccinate border workers’ household contacts. 09 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Mar 2021 A newly established Advisory Group will ensure New Zealand’s COVID-19 response continues to learn and adapt with a focus on continual improvement. 08 Mar 2021 The Government has guaranteed that every New Zealander will have access to the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, after securing an additional 8.5 million doses. 08 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 vaccines media conference with government officials and ministers. 08 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Mar 2021 A border-related case of COVID-19 has been identified today as part of routine surveillance testing. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 41-50 of 283 updates 06 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Mar 2021 On Friday 5 March a Section 70 order was issued. This applies to certain people, who are required to do three things. 05 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 05 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials. 03 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 02 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials. 01 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 01 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Feb 2021 A further person linked to the Auckland February cluster, who is already in the Auckland quarantine facility, has tested positive for COVID-19. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 51-60 of 283 updates 28 Feb 2021 With Auckland now at Alert Level 3, here is some advice for those needing to travel in, out and through Auckland to return home. 28 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 28 Feb 2021 There are two cases of COVID-19 in the community to report. These cases were reported yesterday evening, and are part of the Auckland February cluster. 27 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 27 Feb 2021 The Ministry of Health has this afternoon been notified of a positive case. 26 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Feb 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Feb 2021 About 40 border workers from Christchurch Airport have been vaccinated today as the COVID-19 immunisation programme starts rolling out in the South Island. 24 Feb 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 23 Feb 2021 The Ministry of Health was this afternoon notified that 2 siblings of today’s positive case from Papatoetoe High School have also tested positive for COVID-19. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Last updated: 12 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. We have returned to pre-COVID processes for proactive releases. Please contact the relevant agency for the release of further information relating to COVID-19. To request copies of any of the information, please contact the respective agency through the following contact details: Last updated: 15 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Last updated: 9 October 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are no documents in the “Offshore issues” category for the 9 October 2020 proactive release. Last updated: 9 October 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Last updated: 15 October 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Beware of misinformation on social media and other sources. Only share information from official sources. Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the virus. You can always find find accurate and timely information on our website and through our social channels. Social media and newsletters The World Health Organization also provides a comprehensive list of COVID-19 information, including common misconceptions and misinformation. COVID-19 advice for the public: Mythbusters (external link) Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. If you receive a scam or anything that you suspect is a scam, you can report it to CERT NZ to investigate. Report a scam to CERT NZ (external link) For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices; however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it legally must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) Last updated: 12 April 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages Last updated: 5 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Follow us on social media: Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) Last updated: 2 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Last updated: 11 January 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ngā tohutohu Reo Māori. He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate Vaccine overview Rapua āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Find out when you can get a vaccine Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate After your immunisation  Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate The COVID-19 virus and symptoms He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika Getting the right information matters Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona If you test positive to COVID-19  Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau Testing Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere Turn on Bluetooth tracing   Te noho i te pae 1 Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 Living at Level 4  Hei āwhina tangata Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi Financial support for businesses  Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand  Te akuaku Hygiene posters Tohu whakamana ki o marae Posters for your marae Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai [PDF, 97 KB] Face coverings and masks Whāia ōu tapuwae [PDF, 125 KB] Track your journey Kia haumaru te haere [PDF, 119 KB] Travel safely Kotahi tau i muri mai: Te rāhuitanga Pae Mataara 4 (external link) One year on: Alert Level 4 lockdown   Last updated: 25 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. He wāhanga mātuatua ngā kano ārai mate e haumaru ana, e whaihua ana hoki ki te āhua o tā tātou tiaki i a Aotearoa me ngā kiritata kei Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa i a KOWHEORI-19. Ka whakahirahira hoki ngā kano ārai mate ki tō tātou haumanutanga ā-ōhanga, ki te huakanga anō hoki o ō tātou ripa tauārai. Ka utu-kore ngā kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. Kāore te marea o Aotearoa e herea e te ture kia werohia. Ka puta te tiakanga i ngā kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mō ngā tau e tū mai nei. Heoi, me mahi tonu tātou katoa ki te aukati tonu i a KOWHEORI-19 i ō tātou hapori. Me mātua ū tātou ki ngā ture matua e whā: te horoi ringa, te karapa tohu urupare-wawe (QR), te whakakā i te hono iarere (Bluetooth) me te noho i te kāinga ina pāngia e te māuiui. I a tātou ka uru ki tēnei wāhanga hou o tā tātou pakanga ki a KOWHEORI-19, e whakahirahira rawa ake ana te whai pārongo i ngā puna e whakaaetia ana. Ka raru tātou i te hē o te pārongo, i te wā me mātua mahi tahi tātou hei aukati i te wheori. Ka kitea he pārongo e pono ana; i tō Tākuta, i a Healthline, i tō Poari Hauora ā-Takiwā, i te Manatū Hauora, i te pae tukutuku hoki o Unite Against Covid-19, i www.covid19.govt.nz Kua aromātaihia, kua whakaaetia hoki e Medsafe te whakamahinga o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech ki Aotearoa. Ko Medsafe te kaiwhakarite ā-rongoā i Aotearoa e motuhake ana. Ko tāna he aromātai i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate. Me ū ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā paerewa ā-ao, ki ngā here ā-takiwā hoki e pā ana ki te kounga, ki te haumarutanga me te whaihua i mua i te whakaaetanga me te whakamahinga ki Aotearoa. Kua mau i te Kāwanatanga he putunga kano ārai mate nā Pfizer/BioNTech hei tuku ki te katoa o te motu whānui, hei tautoko hoki i ō tātou kiritata kei Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa. 10 miriona te tapeke o ngā pota o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech ka noho ki Aotearoa. Ka nui tēnei hei wero i te 5 miriona tāngata ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 me mātua whai e rātou. E utu-kore ana te wātea o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 ki te katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te āhua ki tō kōkota, ki tō kirirarautanga rānei. Ina kohia he pārongo, e kore e whakamahia mō ngā take manene. E whakarite ana a Te Manatū Hauora i tētahi mahere e tōkeke ai te tohaina o ngā kano ārai mate. Ka noho mātāmua ko ērā e mōrearea ake ana i a KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i ngā kaimahi i te ripa tauārai, i ngā kaimahi hauora, i ngā Māori, i ngā uri o Te Moananui- a-Kiwa, i ngā kaumātua me ngā hauā. Ko te hunga tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai, kei ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi hoki nā ō rātou tūranga mahi hei aukati tonu i a KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka whai wāhi mai ki tēnei rōpū ko ngā kaiwhakapaipai, ko ngā nēhi e whakahaere ana i ngā arowhai hauora i ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ko ngā kaiwhakahaumaru, ko ngā āpiha o te mana ārai, o te ripa tauārai anō hoki, ko ngā kaimahi hōtēra me ētahi atu. Ko te hunga hoki e noho tahi ana ki a rātou ngā tāngata tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate. Kua whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech i raro i ngā aratohu e whai ake nei: Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo anō mō tā Aotearoa toha i ngā kano ārai mate Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i te wā o te werohia ōu Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i muri i te werohia ōu E wawe rawa ana kia mōhio tātou ki te āhua o tā te wātea o ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, i te ao whānui hoki whakaaweawe i ngā panonitanga ki ō tātou herenga i ngā ripa tauārai. E mahi ana ngā kairangahau ki te whakaū i te noho tonu rānei a te tangata kua werohia hei kaituku, ka tuku ai i a KOWHEORI-19 ki tangata kē atu. Kia tūturu rā anō tērā pārongo, me ū tonu ā tātou whakaritenga i ngā ripa tauārai o te wā nei. Last updated: 19 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. He wā ōna ka puta he pāwera tino kino engari me uaua ka pērā. Kua whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ērā āhuatanga. Ko ētahi mate āpiti ka pā pea ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ki te tūpono puta tēnei tūāhuatanga, tēnā kōrerohia atu ki tō kaituku mahi. Mēnā ka rongo koe i ētahi tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i tētahi maremare e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka whai ai i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka tūpono puta tētahi tauhohenga ki tō werohanga mō KOWHEORI-19, me whāki atu e tō kaiwero, e tō mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E pai ana hoki tō whāki tōtika atu i ngā tauhohenga ka tūpono pā mā te tuku īmēra ki a CARM, mā te whakakī rānei i tā rātou puka whāki ā-ipurangi kei te pae tukutuku a CARM, kei otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mēnā ka matawaenga koe e pā ana ki ō tohumate, mēnā rānei ka kino ake, kōrero ki tō tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ā, kī atu ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. He mahere tā mātau hei whakarato i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kore utu hei tiaki i ngā tangata katoa o Aotearoa. Ko te hunga mōrearea nui ka whiwhi tuatahi i te kano ārai mate. Mēnā 16 tau tō pakeke, neke ake rānei, whakautua ēnei pātai ki te rapu mēnā kei roto koe i te Rōpū 1, 2, 3, 4 rānei, ā, āhea ka taea e koe te whiwhi te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā e tuku ana mātou i te kano ārai mate ki te hunga kei te Rōpū 1. Kāore te kano ārai mate e wātea ana i tēnei wā ki te hunga kei raro iho i te 16 tau. He āwhiwhi noa ngā angawā – ko ngā rā tīmata tūturu kei te āhua kē o te wā ka tukuna mai ngā kano ārai mate. Tērā pea ka panoni ētahi āhuatanga ina tae mai ētahi mōhiohio hou ka pā ki te āhua o te tohanga. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. Last updated: 4 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ko tā te mau uwhi mata he āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, mā te pērā hoki koe me ētahi atu e haumaru ai. Ka āwhina te uwhi mata i te aukatinga o te rere o ngā kōpata ka kōrero ana, ka kata ana, ka maremare ana, ka matihe ana rānei tētahi. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ki tēnei te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, engari e pēnei ana ia kei te pai tōna ora, kāore rānei ngā tohumate e āta kitea ana. Ehara i te mea me mau te nuinga o ngā tāngata i ngā ārai ā-hauora, ka mutu e pai ana kia mau rātou i ētahi atu momo uwhi mata. Ka kōrerotia te tangata me mātua whai i te uwhi mata, i te ārai ā-hauora rānei, e tōna kaituku mahi. Mehemea kāore ō uwhi mata, māu rānei tētahi e hanga, e hoko rānei. Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei.  Last updated: 31 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: I tētahi wā pēnei: Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) Last updated: 14 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) Last updated: 14 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. Last updated: 14 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate I runga ki nga waka tūmatanui, ai ka ū nga arai mata Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. Last updated: 21 October 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Kua herea kia kaua e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i ngā hui pēnei i ngā huinga karakia, i te hākinakina, i te taiopenga pāpori hoki. Kua whakaaetia te tokomaha atu ki te 100 tāngata i ngā tangihanga mehemea ka ea i te kaiwhakahaere ngā herenga. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga E āhei ana kia tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kirihoko ngā wāhi pakihi e whakatutuki ana i ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ka whai wāhi ki ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui, ko: E āhei ana kia rere ngā ratonga ka tukuna ki ngā wāhi tonu o te kirihoko — hei tauira, ki tōna kāinga, me ngā ratonga pā tata e whakatutuki nei i ngā whakaritenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ki te kore e tutuki i te wāhi mahi ēnei whakaritenga, kua kore e āhei kia rere ana mahi. E whakatenatenahia ana ngā pakihi katoa kia whai i huarahi mahi kē mēnā ka taea, kia kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā tūraru me ngā huarahi hei whakatau i ērā. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi ērā atu kawenga katoa mō te hauora me te haumaru, me whai hoki kia haumaru, kia ora tonu hoki ngā kaimahi, ā, me eke hoki rātou ki ngā paeraro e tika ana mō te tuku mahi. E tuwhera ana ngā Whare Ako Kōhungahunga, ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā whare o ngā kura tuatoru ki ngā pakeketanga katoa. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: Mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana koe, e pai ana tō hāereere. Heoi, me ū ki ngā tikanga e haumaru ai te haere. Me mau ārai i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā wā rānei e uaua ana te tū tīrara. Puritia he kōrero mō ō nekehanga. E pai ana tō kuhu ki ō mahi me ngā mahi ā-rēhia he rite tonu te mahia mēnā rā ka haumaru te mahia. Heoi mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. I a koe e whakapakari tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, me whai kia rua mita tō tawhiti i ngā tāngata kāore i te mōhiotia e koe. E āhei ana tō mahi i ngā mahi pēnei i te: Me kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ngā tākaro i te hapori. Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te 100 tāngata ngā kaiwawao, ngā āpiha me kaimahi kē atu e tuku ratonga ana ki te tākaro. Kāore e herea ngā huihuinga mō ngā tākaro e whai kaitākaro ukiuki ana, e whai kaitākaro harangotengote ana rānei. E pēnei ana nā te mea e kīia ana ngā kaitākaro he kaimahi i te wāhi mahi. E kīia ana he huihuinga ngā kaimātakitaki, me te aha kua herea kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ia rōpū. E āhei ana kia tini tonu ngā wāhi kua tautuhia i te papa tākaro mā te whai: Me whai kia kaua rānei ngā rōpū e kōmitimiti, e whai wāhi rānei ki te wāhi kotahi i te wā kotahi. Hei tauira, e āhei ana kia tākarohia te whutupōro mēnā kāore e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i te papa tākaro i te wā kotahi. Mēnā he pae mātakitaki kei ngā taha e rua o te papa tākaro, e āhei ana kia hui te tokomaha atu ki te 100 ki ia pae mātakitaki mehemea e wehe ana rātou i ērā kei tērā atu pae mātakitaki, i ngā kaitākaro me ngā kaiwawao hoki kei te papa tākaro. Ko ngā kaiwhakahaere me te tangata e whakahaere ana i te wāhi e noho haepapa ana ki te kohikohi i ngā pārongo mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He aratohu nā Ihi Aotearoa (external link) Kia kaua rawa te huihuinga pāpori e tokomaha ake i te 100 ki tētahi wāhi kua tautuhia i te wā kotahi. E whai wāhi ana ki tēnei: Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te paerunga o te 100 tāngata ngā kaimahi e tuku ratonga ana ki te huihuinga pāpori. Me mā tonu ngā mata, horoia ō ringa, ā, i ngā wā e taea ana, me haumaru te tū tīrara. Mēnā kāore e taea te ū kia tawhiti ā-tinana nei koe i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, whakaarotia te mau uwhi mata. E ai ki te ture, me mātua takoto i te kaiwhakahaere o te hui ngā ingoa o te hunga ka tae ake e taea ai te whakatewhatewha pānga mehemea me pērā. Ehara i te mea me pērā mehemea e mōhio ana te katoa ki te katoa, heoi anō he pai tonu te whakaaro kia pērā. Mehemea kua rīhingia e koe tētahi wāhi hei huihuinga noa iho mō te tāngata, e pūmau tonu ana ngā ture e pā ana ki te huihuinga. Last updated: 21 October 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Me noho koe ki te kāinga kei hora te mate. Me mahi mai i te kāinga, māna kāore e taea. Me ako mai i te kāinga ngā tamariki ina taea. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Ko tā ngā tāngata katoa i Tāmakimakaurau: Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Ā-ture nei me mau uhi kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i runga i ngā rerenga ā-motu hoki. E tino whakatenatena ana kia kaha te mau uhi kanohi i ngā tūāhuatanga kāore e taea te tū tīrara, pēnā ki ngā toa. Ngā uhi kanohi He mea nui kia whai koe i ngā āhuatanga māmā o te tikanga akuaku, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te maremare, te matihe rānei ki te whatianga o tō ringa, me te hori o ngā papa katoa. E tino whakatenatenahia ana kia whakatakina ō haerenga, me te hunga ka kite ai koe. He mea āwhina i te whakataki tere i te tangata ina hiahiatia. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, mehemea kāore koe i te mahi, i te kura rānei, ā-ture nei me hoki koe ki tō mirumiru kāinga noho ai. E āhei ana koe ki te whakawhānui ake i tēnei: He mea nui kia tiakina tō mirumiru. Me tāuke tō mirumiru, me whakaae anake kia uru mai te tangata mehemea ka pai tāu, me tā rātou noho haumaru, noho hauora anō hoki. Ki te māuiui haere tētahi i roto i tō mirumiru, ā-ture nei me noho taratahi rātou i ētahi atu i te mirumiru.  Kaua e pōhiri, e whakaae rānei ki ngā manuhiri, pērā ki ngā hoa, te whānau whānui, whānau rānei ki te kuhu mai ki tō kāinga. E āhei ana to hāereere i tō ake rohe, hei tauira, mō te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei, ki te hokohoko, ki te whakapakari tinana rānei. E āhei ana te haere tonu o ngā waka tūmatanui i runga i ngā tino herenga hauora, haumaru hoki. Ki te Pae Mataara 3 kua tino herea ngā haerenga i waenga i ngā rohe. Kua tino herea te haerenga atu me te haerenga mai i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3. Hei aukati i te hora o te mate tēnei mahi. Me tono whakaaetanga koe i tua atu kia pai ai tō haerenga i tētahi rohe Pae Mataara ki tētahi rohe Pae Mataara. I runga i te ture me kati rawa ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Tae atu tēnei ki ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā kōti kai, ngā whare whakapakari tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā papatākaro me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā ki te ako i ngā ngohe hou, ki te hura rānei i a koe, i tō mirumiru rānei ki te mōrea. E āhei ana ngā ngohe ā-rēhia, iti te mōrea, ki tō ake rohe. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaritea he herenga ki te whakahaumaru i ngā kaimahi, ki te whakaiti hoki i te tāutuutu i waenga i ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki, hei ara aukati i te hora o te KOWHEORI-19.  Ko te tino tohutohu kia mahi mai i te kāinga ngā kaimahi ina taea. Mehemea kei te raru koe mō te taha moni, arā pea he āwhina māu. He tautoko mō te taha ki te kai, ki te moni, ki te noho, ki te noho haumaru, noho ora anō hoki Last updated: 11 March 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Mō te Pae Mataara 4 me: Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te huaketo me ngā tohu o te Mate Korona Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te Whakamātautau Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te haurapa Hono Iarere Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Pāwhiria i konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi Kua katia katoatia ngā Akomanga Kōhungahunga, ngā puna kōhungahunga, ngā kura, me ngā kura wānanga. Mā te tino whai take e taea ai te haere ki rohe kē. Me kati ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā whare pukapuka, ko ngā whare pupuri taonga, ko ngā whare pikitia, ko ngā papa kai, ko ngā whare hākinakina, ko ngā puna kaukau, ko ngā papa tākaro, ko ngā mākete hoki. Kāore e whakaaetia kia tū ngā hui tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā tākaro, ko ngā mārena, ko ngā uhunga, tangihanga rānei, te aha noa. Me kaua koe e whakapā ā-tinana atu ki tētahi atu i tō ake poihau. E taea ai te korikori, te tākaro māmā hoki ki roto i tō rohe tata, hei tauira, e āhei ana ki te hīkoi, ki te oma rānei tata ki tō kāinga. Ehara tēnei i te wā kia whāia e koe he koringa hou. Me mahi i mamao ngā kaipakihi katoa atu i ērā kua tohua hei ratonga whai tikanga. Me whai ritenga e haumaru ai ngā kaimahi, me whakatiki i ngā whakapānga ki ngā kiritaki, me whakatiki hoki i te horanga o te Mate Korona. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi tuku ratonga pērā i ngā ratonga hauora, ngā ratonga whaipainga, me ngā kaikawe utanga. Me whai tonu ngā kaitukumahi i ēnei tū mahi i ngā tikanga hauora, haumaru anō. Ki te tūpono ka ohotata (pērā i te ahi, te rū whenua, te tai āniwhaniwha, te aha noa) whāia ngā ritenga ohotata. Ka whai mana kē atu ēnei ritenga ohotata i ērā o te Mate Korona, heoi me tū tīrara tonu i ngā wā e taea ai. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero hei ārahi i a koe i ngā wā ohotata Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā kaipakihi Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Kua whai a Aotearoa i ngā pota 10 miriona o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech. E nui ana ērā e werohia ai ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate me whai e whakatōngia ai rātou ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. He mahere tā te Kāwanatanga e utukore ai, e tōkeke ai hoki te wātea o te kano ārai mate ki a rātou. Ka whakamātāmuatia te hunga e nui ake ana te mōrearea i a KOWHEORI-19. E hiahia ana mātou kia whai wāhi ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki te ārai i a rātou anō, i ō rātou whānau me ō tātou hapori, mā te werohanga ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. Ka tohaina haerehia ngā pota ki ngā rōpū e whā. Ko te whāinga, kia werohia ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki te kano ārai mate i mua i te mutunga o te tau 2021. Ko te hunga tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate ko ō tātou kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai me te hunga e noho tahi ana ki a rātou. Ka whai wāhi ki tēnei rōpū ngā kaiwhakapaipai, ngā nēhi e whakahaere ana i ngā arowhai hauora i ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ngā kaiwhakahaumaru, ngā āpiha o te mana ārai, o te ripa tauārai anō hoki, ngā kaimahi hōtēra, ngā kaimahi pukumaire me ngā pirihimana e tika ana kia whakaurua ki ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ngā kaimahi waka rererangi, ngā mana taunga poti me ngā kaiwero i te kano ārai mate. Ka rere ngā werohanga o tēnei Rōpū ki te kano ārai mate hei a Pēpuere me Māehe o te tau 2021. Kia mutu te whakatōngia o ō tātou kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai me te hunga e noho tahi ana ki a rātou ki te kano ārai mate, kātahi mātou ka whakatōngia ki te kano ārai mate ko ngā kaimahi hauora kei ngā aroaro ākapa e nui ana te tūpono pāngia ki a KOWHEORI-19, e nui ana hoki/rānei te tūpono o te horanga o te mate rā mā ō rātou whakawhitinga me te tūroro. Kei te Rōpū 2 hoki ko ngā Māori me ngā tāngata o Te Moana nui a Kiwa e pakeke ake ana, e tiakina nei e ngā whānau (ko ērā hoki e noho tahi ana ki a rātou, me ō rātou kaitiaki). Hei wāhanga hoki mō tēnei Rōpū, ka werohia hoki ki te kano ārai mate ko ērā kei te takiwā hauora (DHB) o te tonga o Tāmaki kua 65+ ngā tau, ko ērā rānei e raru nei ō rātou pūnaha awhikiri, ko ērā rānei e hauā ana. Ka werohia te Rōpū 2 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Maehe ki a Mei, i te tau 2021. I te Rōpū 3, ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ko ngā tāngata kua 65+ ngā tau, ko ērā e raru nei ō rātou pūnaha awhikiri, ko ērā rānei e hauā ana, ko ērā pakeke hoki e tautiakina ana e te ture. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ngā āhuatanga e kīia ai kua raru te pūnaha awhikiri ko te manawa toto pūroto, ko te toto pōrutu, ko te roro ikura, ko te matehuka, ko ngā mate mau tonu ki te pukapuka, ko te mate tākihi me te mate pukupuku. Ka rere ngā werohanga o te Rōpū 3 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Mei o te 2021 ā haere ake. I te Rōpū 4, ka wātea te huarahi kia werohia ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 ko ērā atu tāngata katoa kua 16 tau te pakeke, kua pakeke ake rānei i tērā, kāore anō kia whakatōngia ki te kano ārai mate. Kāore anō kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te werohia o ngā tāngata e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke ki te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech. Ka rere ngā werohanga o te Rōpū 4 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Hūrae o te tau 2021 ā haere ake. Ahakoa mā te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e ārai atu te wheori ā haere ake nei, me kaha tonu tātou katoa ki te whai wāhi ki te aukatinga o KOWHEORI-19 i ō tātou hapori. Me ū tonu tātou ki ngā tikanga matua e 4: te horoi ringaringa, te karapa i ngā tohu āurupare wawe (QR), te whakakā i te hono iarere (Bluetooth) me te noho i te kāinga ina pāngia e te māuiui. Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i te wā o te werohia ou Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta mai i muri i te werohia ōu Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Last updated: 19 December 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ko te pare atu i te mate korona i Aotearoa, te mahi tiaki rawa i a tātou. Mai i te 11:59pm i te 25 o Kohitātea 2021, katoa ngā tāngata e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa, hāunga anō ērā o Ahitereiria, o Anatātika, o Rarotonga, o ngā Moutere o Maikoronihia, o Whīti, o Kiripati, o ngā Moutere Māhara, o Nauru, o Niu Karetōnia, o Niue, o Parau, o Hāmoa, o ngā Motu Horomona, o Tokerau, o Tonga, o Tuwaru, o Whenuatū, o Uwea me Whutuna, me mātua whakamātautau mō te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau, e 72 hāora i mua i te wehetanga, ka mutu ka whakaatu mai hoki i te tiwhikete taiwhanga pūtaiao, i tētahi atu momo taunakitanga tōtika rānei. E whakaaetia ana hoki te katoa o ngā whakamātau PCR , whakamātau LAMP me ngā whakamātau kita whakamate mō tēnei whakamātau tōmua. Me mahi atu ngā whakamātautau katoa e tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao. E whakaaetia ana hoki ngā tiwhikete tohuora kua tuhia ki reo kē. E whakawāteatia ana i te whakamātau tōmua ko ngā tamariki kāore anō kia rua tau (24 marama) te pakeke. E whakawāteatia ana i te whakamātau tōmua ko te tangata haere mai ki Aotearoa he tiwhikete tohuora tāna e tohu ana kua ora ake ia i te KOWHEORI-19, e kore hoki e pāngia tētahi atu ki taua mate e ia. Ko ngā tāngata haere kāore e taea te whakamātau nā tētahi take hauora, me mātua toro ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō wehetanga. Me mātua homai e te tākuta he tiwhikete tohuora e whakaatu ana he take hauora kē i kore ai koe e whakamātauria, ā, kāore hoki ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e rere ana koe ki whenua kē mā Aotearoa, ā, kāore koe e puta i te taiwhanga whakawhiti waka rererangi, e whakawāteatia ana koe i te whakamātau tōmua. E kaha ana te whakahau ki te hunga haere kia whakapā atu ki ō rātou kamupene rererangi kei tūpono he whakaritenga anō ā rātou mō ngā whakamātau tōmua. Me mōhio anō hoki ki ngā whakaritenga a ērā atu whenua e whakawhiti atu ai rātou. Mai i te 8 o Huitanguru, katoa ngā pāhihi ka tae mai ki Aotearoa (i tua atu i ērā nō ngā whenua i whakawāteatia), kāore he tohu whakaatu i te korenga o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā rānei he tiwhikete tohuora, tērā pea e whiua ki te whaina, piki atu ki te $1,000. Hei te taunga mai ki Aotearoa, ko ngā tāngata haere mai katoa: He werohanga ihu PCR te momo whakamātautau nei. Ka 24-28 hāora kia hoki mai ngā whakataunga whakamātautau. Me he korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau, ka noho tonu te tangata ki te puni whakamohoao mō te roanga atu o ngā rā 14. Ka whakamātauria anō i te takiwā o te rā 3 me te rā 12 o tā rātou noho. Mō te katoa tonu o ngā tāngata, me korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakaae hoki e tō mātou kāhui hauora he iti te tūpono kei te kawea haere te mate korona, kua pāngia rānei ki ētahi atu kātahi anō ka whakaaetia te wehe atu i te puni whakamohoao. Mehemea he mate korona te whakatau, ka tōmua ake te neke i te tangata ki te whaitua taratahi, tēnā i kore ai te whakamātautau i te rā 0. Hei tūwatawata anō te whakamātautau o te rā 0 hei ārai atu i a KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, tae atu ki ōna putanga kētanga hou kua ara ake i tāwāhi, me te tere ake o te horapa haere. Mō ngā tino kōrero o te wā e pā ana ki te mate korona, tēnā peka ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki ngā puni whakamohoao, me ngā whaitua taratahi, haere ki tēnei: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) Last updated: 9 February 2021 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ki te kore e taea e koe te wehe i tō kāinga ki te tiki kai, me whai kia: Tērā tonu pea ka whai āwhina koe i Te Hiranga Tangata. Ehara i te mea me kiritaki kē koe nā Te Hiranga Tangata. Ki te totoa tō hiahia ki te whai kai i ngā hāora e 24-48 e whai ake nei, e pai ana hoki tō whakapā atu ki tētahi putunga kai o te rohe pātata. Rapua ngā putunga kai me ētahi atu ratonga tuku kai puta noa i Aotearoa (external link) Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi i te kāinga i a koe e tatari ana ki tō whakamātaunga Mate Korona, ka taea e tō kaitukumahi te tono kia utua kotahitia mai te $350 hei utu tonu i a koe. Kei te wātea hoki tēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi i te kāinga i a koe e noho whakamohoao ana ka taea e tō kaitukumahi te tono ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Ka kotahi putunga mai te utu ki ngā kaitukumahi, ā, ka utua mō te rua wiki mō ia kaimahi e whai wāhi mai ana, $585.80 mō ia kaimahi e mahi ana mō ngā haora 20 neke atu i ia wiki, ka $350 mō ia kaimahi e mahi ana mō ngā haora i raro i te 20 i ia wiki. Mēnā kua raru tō wāhi mahi i te huringa Pae Mataara, ka taea e tō kaitukumahi te tono ki te pūtea āwhina me te pūtea whakaara hei utu i a koe, kia whai mahi tonu koe. Mēnā kua poroa tō tūranga mahi, kua whakahekea rānei ō hāora mahi, he āwhina kei Te Hiranga Tangata mō te taha ki ngā utu totoa pēnei i ō te: Te tautoko ā-pūtea, ngā paearu whai wāhi me te ara hei tono, i te pae tukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Whakapā atu rānei ki Te Hiranga Tangata i; E āhei ana tā te hunga turi, tā te hunga kāore e rongo tika ana, tā te hunga kāore hoki e mārama ana te kōrero whakamahi i te Deaf Link i runga i te kore utu Waeahia te tau whawhati tata o te 111 mēnā e inamata ana te mōrearea ōu, o tētahi atu rānei  i te tūkino mai a tētahi, i te hiahia rānei o tētahi ki te tūkino i a ia anō. E hono ai koe ki ngā ratonga tautoko ā-pāpori i tō rohe pātata, waeahia te tau whai āwhina, 211 nei, o Ngā Ratonga ā-Whānau, te 0800 211 211 , toro atu rānei ki www.familyservices.govt.nz/directory/ (external link) He kupu ārahi, he tautoko, he whare haumaru hoki kei Te Punanga Wāhine mēnā kei te pā mai ngā mahi tūkino a tētahi ki tōu ao. 0800 733 843 He ratonga utu-kore te Tau-āwhina o Te Tūkino Kaumātua e wātea ana ki ngā kaumātua mēnā kei te tūkinotia rātou, kei te tūkinotia rānei tētahi atu e mōhiotia ana e rātou. 0800 32 668 65 E whai tautoko ai koe mō te mānukanuka, mō te ahotea, mō te oranga rānei o te hinengaro, waeahia, pātuhihia rānei te 1737 ki te kōrero ki tētahi kua whakangungua ki te āwhina, kāore nei he utu, i ngā hāora e 24 i ia rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E pai ana hoki tō whakapā atu ki te Tau-āwhina mō te Hinapōuri, ki te 0800 111 757 ki te Tau-āwhina hoki mō te Waipiro me te Whakapōauau, ki te 0800 787 797 . Last updated: 14 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. Last updated: 14 September 2020 Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. Get support
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Everyone wants an endless summer. Those long glorious days that roll into weeks. No one wants it cut short. And to make sure it isn’t, we all need to do our bit. We need to show New Zealand that washing their hands, scanning QR codes, turning on Bluetooth tracing and staying home if they’re sick is the best way to unite and make our summer unstoppable. Warning: video contains flashing images. Please look away if you have a history of photosensitive epilepsy or suffer from migraines.   To help to make summer unstoppable, we have developed a music track featuring Dr Ashley Bloomfield. This video is available to use at events and festivals. If you would like the raw video files, please contact us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz Order collateral to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable. Order collateral to help make summer unstoppable (external link) If you cannot use this form, email us to order. Email Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz If you are running an event this summer it is important that it is as safe as possible for you and your event attendees. To help you play your part, we’ve created an event activation toolkit, as well as a checklist to ensure your event is as safe as possible. You can add text or images relevant to events, people or places in your region. This poster has space in the centre to add your event’s QR code, name and address details. These digital banners are 1600x500 pixels. These social media tiles are 1080x1080 pixels. You can download our posters and add in your own text or images so they work for you. If you need something else to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable, contact us with your design request. Please include a high resolution image and the relevant specs. We cannot cater to every request but we’ll do our best to provide you with design files. Email your request to Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Last updated: 28 January 2021 Get support