New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Changes to Alert Level 2 have come into effect. Information on how to track your movements for contact tracing, including the use of apps. How to create a QR code poster for visitors using NZ COVID Tracer. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield speaks at the 1pm media conference Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield speaks at the 1pm media conference Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield speaks at the 1pm media conference Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield speak at the 4pm post Cabinet media conference. Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield spoke at the 1pm media conference Make a difference by supporting friends, neighbours and whānau, especially those who are over 70 or at risk. Keep 2 metres physical distance from strangers when out and about. Together, we can stop the spread. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures to be taken against COVID-19 at each level. Find out what Alert Level 4 means for New Zealand. Alert Level 3 information on personal movement, recreation, education, work, business, travel, gatherings, and staying safe and well. Information on life and business at Alert Level 2. Information about the State of National Emergency that was declared for COVID-19. Information about the National Transition Period and what this means. Together we're uniting against COVID-19. If you're concerned that something may breach the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. New Zealand moved to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Wednesday 13 May. From midday Friday 29 May the limit on gatherings has changed from 10 to 100 people. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: The information on this page is also available in other languages: You have more freedom of movement at Alert Level 2, but it’s up to each one of us to keep the rest of New Zealand safe. These are the most important things that you can remember and do: Life at Alert Level 2 means you can resume many of your everyday activities — but you have to do so safely. Alert Level 2 is not life as normal, some restrictions and other measures remain in place to reduce the risk of transmission. At Alert Level 2, you can leave home to do more things, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when out and about: There will be a few times at Alert Level 2 where it won’t be possible to maintain physical distance, so there will be other measures to manage public health risks. From midday Friday 29 May the the limit on social gatherings has changed from 10 to 100 people. These include events at home and outside of home such as: Play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands, and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. A person in charge of a social gathering, must ensure records are kept for contact tracing purposes, except where every person in a gathering knows each other. This includes in your home, community hall, or other space. You should not participate in any gatherings if you have COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. Many public venues will be open again at Alert Level 2. This includes: All public venues must keep records to enable contact tracing. You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, provided you can do them safely. This includes activities that were restricted previously, including: Community sports are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. A sports field can have multiple defined spaces by keeping: More information on exercisely safely Government is working with community sports organisations to work through how community sport can be restarted safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. The details for these events will be developed with Sport New Zealand and WorkSafe. Initially, they will happen without crowds but they can be broadcast. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. At Alert Level 2 businesses can operate if they’re able to do so safely. Do everything you can to reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work — we all have a part to play in keeping each other safe. At Alert Level 2 businesses can have customers on their premises. Retail businesses, including malls, markets, and takeaway shops: There is no maximum number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars must: People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Businesses can operate with defined, separated areas. The 100 person maximum applies per area, as long as intermingling in common spaces, such as entrances, exits and toilets, can be prevented. This also applies to separate businesses that operate from the same location. More information on doing business at Alert Level 2 For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place like: Hairdressers, and similar workers, are not required to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) like masks. We expect, however, that many workers and customers may want workers to wear masks. The key public health requirements stay the same at Alert Level 2. Businesses should maintain hygiene measures, including physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. All businesses are encouraged to use alternative ways of working if possible. If workers have symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You can travel around the country, if you follow good personal health measures. You will need to keep records of what travel services you use and keep track of who you have been in contact with. You should keep your distance from groups of people you don’t know. You should minimise the number of places you stop on the way to your destination. You must not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. There will be significantly more people driving on our roads and public transport will have reduced capacity as people try to maintain a safe distance during Alert Level 2. So, it’s important to plan your travel, expect delays and allow extra time. Tips for minimising risk while travelling: Early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are open to all ages.  It is safe to attend all forms of education. Additional public health measures are in place. It is important that all learners can continue their education. On the advice of public health officials, any educational facilities connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 must close on an individual or group basis to allow contact tracing, and then potentially for a further 14 days. All Early Learning Centres and schools will be physically open, including Years 11 to 13. Distance learning will be available for those unable to attend school, for example where people are self-isolating. Early learning services and schools are safe environments for children, young people and staff. Additional public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease and to support contact tracing. Alert Level 2 FAQs for schools and Early Learning Centres (external link) Tertiary education facilities are open. Tertiary education is a safe environment for students and staff to return to at Alert Level 2. Tertiary education facilities will implement public health requirements and physical distancing as appropriate for the context, and will work closely to ensure a safe environment where students can continue their learning.  They will need to maintain distance learning capability to help manage within these constraints, and ensure safety of staff and students at risk of COVID-19. Workplace-based learning will be conducted within the specific rules applicable to the relevant industry. There is guidance for people at higher risk of COVID-19. It includes advice under the different Alert Levels, who is at higher risk, and how they can protect themselves. Information for at-risk people At Alert Level 2, people who are a probable or confirmed case of COVID-19, or who are a close contact of a case, will have to self-isolate for 14 days, or until cleared by a doctor. People arriving from overseas will continue to be placed in managed-isolation for 14 days, or quarantine if they are showing symptoms. Anyone with symptoms of COVID-19 should get tested — contact your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453. New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures we must take against COVID-19 at each level. Find out what each Alert Level means for you: The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level 2) Order 2020 is issued by the Minister of Health, and sets out the obligations for businesses, services and gatherings at Alert Level 2. COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level 2) Order 2020 (external link) YouTube playlist about Alert Level 2 (external link) Last modified: 28 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. New Zealand moved to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Wednesday 13 May. Alert Level 2 The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: The information on this page is also available in other languages: Limiting our interactions with others is our best defence against COVID-19. Under Alert Level 3 we must continue to stay in our household bubbles whenever we are not at work, school, buying the groceries or exercising. People must stay within their household bubble but can expand this to reconnect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s important to protect your bubble if you extend it. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and well. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they should self-isolate from everyone else within your bubble. Don’t invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. More information on leaving your house If you were in the wrong place when the restrictions came into place, and need to get home, you can now move throughout New Zealand to do so. There are some restrictions if you do travel. You can only move once, and in 1 direction. Travel within New Zealand Restrictions for travelling during Alert Level 3 (external link) New Zealand citizens living in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau can travel domestically within New Zealand to connect to international flights to these islands. A bubble is your household — the people you live with. Under Alert Level 3, you can slightly extend your bubble. For example, you can bring in a caregiver, or children who might be in shared care. Or, if you're living alone, or a couple who wants the company of another one or two people. These people don't need to live in the same household but must be local. Always keep your bubble exclusive and keep it small. If the situation in your bubble is unsafe or life-threatening you can leave your bubble immediately and seek help from a neighbour or friend. Once there you can reach out to the police, or Women’s Refuge. If you're in this situation or concerned for someone else, find out what support is available. Support available for family or sexual violence We have suggestions about how you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. You should drive as short a distance as you can, and still do the activity. You must stay local. Your nearest recreational area could mean travelling to a neighbouring region if you live on a regional boundary, as long as this is still local and a close distance to your home. Travel to your nearest park or beach, not your favourite one. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area, for example to go for a walk or a run. You can go for a swim at the beach, a day walk, or fishing from a wharf. You can hunt on private land, but not on public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles isn't allowed. Boating, yachting and any team sports or training are not allowed. You can do recreational activities by yourself or with people from your bubble. We have guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Most tertiary education will be through distance learning. Tertiary education facilities may open for limited activities involving small groups of up to 10 people where the members of the group stay the same and maintain physical distancing. Examples of these limited activities include campus research that can’t be done off campus, lab work, and practical hands on learning such as trades courses. Courses where close contact is unavoidable will remain online only Yes, it's safe for your child to go to school. The restrictions on the numbers of children are necessary due to the need for physical distancing, transport constraints, and limited resources. The limits also help reduce the risk. There's guidance for businesses and employees under Alert Level 3. Find more information about: This is about managing the risk of transmission. Retail shops can be difficult to control in terms of physical distancing and keeping surfaces clean. Exceptions have been made for businesses like supermarkets, but right now the risk of transmission is too high to allow this more widely. Measures like drive-through or home delivery better manage this risk, but unfortunately, not everyone will be able to do this. Right now, the risk of transmission from people providing services that require close personal contact, for example, hairdressers, manicurists, beauticians, domestic cleaners, personal trainers, gymnasiums, is too great. These businesses can resume under Alert Level 2, with appropriate health measures in place. Employment New Zealand has advice, including on health and safety, financial support and speaking up. Employment New Zealand advice on COVID-19 and the workplace (external link) The primary aim of travel restrictions is to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand by reducing contact between people, including by stopping or restricting some types of travel. This is the best way to fight COVID-19 and ultimately save lives in New Zealand. Travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Find more information about: Detailed information about travel and transport (external link) Other travel should not be undertaken. The risk of transmitting the disease is too high. This isn't a time to take a holiday, travel between regions to celebrate birthdays or travel from one side of a city to the other to go to a supermarket when there's a suitable one in your local area. Public transport will have fewer people on board to maintain distancing, and buses and trains will be regularly disinfected. You should thoroughly wash your hands with soap and water immediately after taking public transport. Don’t travel inter-regionally, unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Keep as local as you can, while doing your usual commute to work and school. This is only if you're not working from home or doing distance learning. You should avoid public transport if you're sick. Call your GP or Healthline to get advice. Gatherings and events create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. At Alert Level 3, we are keeping tight restrictions on gatherings. The only permitted gatherings of up to 10 people are for: Find more information on: If you hold a wedding ceremony: Most people will still need to attend through video conferencing. To maintain momentum in eliminating COVID-19 gatherings must be small. Keeping the limit low means the risk of community transmission stays low and our gains from Alert Level 4 aren’t compromised. These places are not considered gatherings because they have appropriate public health measure in place. There's guidance for people at higher risk of COVID-19. It includes advice under the different Alert Levels, who is at higher risk, and how they can protect themselves. We should work together to stay safe and well at every Alert Level. Kindness to others is a powerful way to look after each other. How to stay safe and slow the spread of COVID-19 New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures we must take against COVID-19 at each level. Find out what each Alert Level means for you: Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. New Zealand moved to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Wednesday 13 May. Alert Level 2 The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: The information on this page is also available in other languages: We need your support to protect New Zealand and eradicate COVID-19. Enforcement measures may be used to ensure everyone acts together, now. Don’t worry, during this time, you will be able to access all the essentials you need, including medicine, food and other home supplies. Advice for staying at home and things to do to make it easier Guidance on Alert Level 4 rules from Ministry of Health and New Zealand Police (external link) Guidance on how to shop safely Information about accessing food banks Any place where the public congregates must close their face-to-face function. This includes: Events, including family and social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes birthdays, funerals, tangihanga, and weddings. Workplaces where people are undertaking essential businesses are not included. Guidance for leaving your house Advice for exercising safely, including types of exercise you should stick to and where you can exercise If you’re not sure what assistance may be available or don’t know who to contact for help, call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 10pm, 7 days a week. Only businesses that are essential may remain open during the Alert Level 4 period. If a business isn’t sure if it provides services or products which qualify as essential, it should close. If you're a business or worker in a non-essential business, you may still work — as long as this is from home. If you cannot work remotely, you must stay home. Find out more about essential businesses The Government is acting to support all people in New Zealand through these changes. This includes: Your usual financial support, such as benefits, will continue. COVID-19 support, including how to apply, on the Work and Income website (external link) More information about the types of financial support available Funeral directors provide essential services and will continue working during Alert Level 4. However, gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Only people from the same self-isolation household group as the deceased person can go to the funeral home and cemetery with the deceased, and only if these are in the same region. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to keep your physical distance. This may be a challenging time for you and your family. If you ever feel you're not coping, it's important to talk with a health professional. For support, you can call or text 1737 . It's free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Find out more about funerals and tangihanga All schools and early childhood education centres are closed. Schools will be providing information directly to all parents about what this means for them. The school term break was brought forward to start on Monday 30 March. Schools are establishing ways to teach online and remotely. Where possible, essential workers with children aged 0 to 14 need to make their own arrangements for childcare. We know this will not be possible for everyone. Alternative arrangements are in place to allow essential workers to access childcare and continue to work. Your employer will tell you if you qualify as an essential worker for these purposes. Information about schools and early childhood, and information for parents and caregivers about arranging childcare Health and medical facilities are essential services and will remain open while we are at Alert Level 4. You can still get medical help if you need it. This includes healthcare services, such as Healthline, GPs, cancer services, disability and aged support services. However, if you need to see a doctor or other medical professional you MUST phone first. Most consultations will happen over the phone or by videoconference to stop any risk of COVID-19 spreading by person-to-person contact. If a face-to-face meeting is required, your doctor or other medical professional will organise this with you. Please only call Healthline if you or someone you know feels unwell or you need medical advice, rather than general questions about COVID-19. It's important Healthline is able to answer calls from those who need medical advice. The more people who call asking for general information, the fewer people who need medical advice can get through. If you cannot get through and are severely unwell, for example having trouble breathing, contact emergency services by calling 111 . Further advice on how to access healthcare At Alert Level 4, all types of transport and travel are restricted. Only travel for essential reasons, such as to get food or medicine, or to go to work if you’re an essential worker. If you’re unwell or at high risk, you should avoid leaving your home at all. Advice if you’re unwell Advice for at-risk and vulnerable people You can use public transport, taxis and ride-sharing services for transport for essential reasons. Information about public transport Advice about using taxi and ride-sharing services You can use a private vehicle for essential reasons. You should only travel in your vehicle with people from your household. Advice for using private vehicles You can use active transport like walking and biking, if you keep a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your household. How to exercise safely Visitors and tourists can still use international air services to travel home but commercial flights have been impacted. Don't go to the airport unless you have a ticket. If you don't have ticket, contact a travel agent or airline directly. If you can't get a ticket, please contact your country's embassy. Information about travel restrictions and visa extensions from Immigration New Zealand (external link) Information about international travel, including latest border restrictions and advice about travelling overseas Guidance for recent arrivals in New Zealand While in Alert Level 4, air travel will be used only to transport people undertaking essential services and to transport freight. Information about domestic travel exemption for foreign nationals connecting to international flights At-risk or vulnerable people in particular should stay at home, and ask others to pick up supplies for them. You just need to ask them to leave supplies at the door, rather than come in. You're at high risk if you're over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. People with underlying medical conditions include a compromised immune system, liver disease, cancer, kidney disease, heart disease and diabetes mellitus, pregnant people or those on immunosuppressant medications. You need to take more precautions to protect yourself against all infections, including COVID-19. More information for vulnerable and at-risk groups Download a poster asking people not to enter your building Find out more about COVID-19 If there's another emergency while we are at Alert Level 4, you should do what you would normally do. If you feel an earthquake: drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember long or strong: get gone. If you're advised to evacuate by authorities because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice. Emergency evacuation orders will override the COVID-19 Alert Level 4 requirement to stay at home. If you have to evacuate and leave your house, take your grab bag with you and try to avoid contact with people who aren’t in your bubble. Stay 2 metres away from others. If life or property is threatened always dial 111 for Police, Fire or Ambulance. How to get ready for an emergency (external link) Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. New Zealand moved to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Wednesday 13 May. From midday Friday 29 May the limit on gatherings has changed from 10 to 100 people. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL) (external link) The information on this page is also available in other languages: The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that must be followed accordingly. This includes increasing or decreasing limits on human contact, travel and business operations. The Alert Levels tell us all what public health and social measures need to be taken. The measures may be updated on the basis of: The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can also move up and down Alert Levels. In general, the Alert Levels are cumulative, for example Alert Level 1 is a base-level response. Always prepare for the next level. At all levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities, and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. The public will notice an increased police presence with a focus on prevention, through education and encouragement. At all levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. Emergencies during COVID-19 Likely that disease is not contained. More information about Alert Level 4 High risk the disease is not contained. More information about Alert Level 3 The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. More information about Alert Level 2 The disease is contained in New Zealand. Introduction to COVID-19 Alert System (external link) COVID-19 Alert Level 4 (external link) COVID-19 Alert Level 3 (external link) COVID-19 Alert Level 2 (external link) COVID-19 Alert Level 1 (external link) Last modified: 13 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. At Alert Level 2 we have more options and freedom of movement but it’s not life as normal. Businesses, recreation facilities and schools, Early Learning Centres, and tertiary facilities can open if they can do so safely. It’s still up to all of us to keep ourselves and the rest of New Zealand safe. Find out more about life at Alert Level 2 Remember, the Golden Rules for Alert Level 2: If you believe someone isn't sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach online (external link) If it's an emergency, you should call 111 . Last modified: 5 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The State of National Emergency has been lifted and a National Transition Period is now in place across the country. The period will help: The notice of a National Transition Period has been made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002. Notice of National Transition period — 14 May 2020 (external link) The National Transition Period came into force at 12.21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020 – the point at which the state of national emergency expired. The National Transition Period ends at 12.21pm on Monday 10 August 2020, unless extended or terminated earlier. The National Transition Period does not change the COVID-19 Alert Level. Information about the COVID-19 Alert System A National Transition Period supports a transition from an emergency response into the initial recovery phase. A National Transition Period provides the National Recovery Manager and others access to special powers designed to assist with recovery (rather than response). The powers available under a National Transition Period are similar to the powers available under a State of Emergency, although not as extensive. Transition Period powers enable recovery managers to, among other things: Police constables can also exercise powers during a transition period. Last modified: 18 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. A State of National Emergency was declared at 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 due to COVID-19. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of CDEM. The State of National Emergency expired at 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. At this time the National Transition Period came into force. National Transition Period Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it is declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: Notices on the state of national emergency The National Transition Period does not change the COVID-19 Alert Level. Information about the COVID-19 Alert System Under the CDEM Act, this declaration means the Director of CDEM may control the exercise and performance of functions, duties, and powers of CDEM Groups and Group controllers. There are no other differences between the powers under a State of Local Emergency and a State of National Emergency. Emergency powers under the CDEM Act 2002 enable the Director of Civil Defence Emergency and CDEM Group Controllers to, among other things: CDEM Act powers can be used where necessary to slow the spread of COVID-19, reduce its impact and manage the consequences, for example: This is the second time in New Zealand history that a state of national emergency has been declared. A state of national emergency for Christchurch City was declared on 23 February 2011 in response to the February 22 Christchurch earthquake. The state of national emergency was declared for Christchurch City as resources from across the country were required in order to assist response and early recovery efforts and lasted from 23 February 2011 until 30 April 2011 for a day count of 66 days. The state of national emergency for COVID-19 is the first time such a declaration has been made for the whole of New Zealand. Last modified: 18 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Information for businesses and services on financial support, operating safely and working with employees. Information for employees on financial support, and working with your employer to stay safe and slow the spread of COVID-19. Find out what financial support you could access. Access the latest economic data from the Treasury. Resources to help your business operate safely — including posters, signs, and contact tracing templates.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. You might find it useful to display these posters in your place of business. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You need to adjust your printer settings. Businesses operating at Alert Level 2, must record details of people’s movement on their premises. How to collect information for contact tracing All businesses must record details of all people’s movement on their premises. This includes all employees, visitors and customers. You should keep people 1 metre apart at all times, where practical. Retail stores do not need to record details of their customers. You should still keep records of your employees and any visitors, such as maintenance workers or suppliers. You should keep customers 2 metres apart at all times, where practical. You should develop a COVID-19 plan so your business can operate safely. Doing business at Alert Level 2 Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Information for businesses and services on financial support, operating safely and working with employees. Information for businesses on how to operate safely at Alert Level 2. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees during COVID-19. Advice for NGOs and charities, and information about how you can support your workers and your organisation. Employers and employees need to work together to slow the spread of COVID-19, protect New Zealand and keep each other safe. Information for businesses and other organisations on how to collect information to help with contact tracing. Develop a COVID-19 plan so your business operates safely. Decisions about essential businesses and services at COVID-19 Alert Level 4.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in other languages: To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. All non-retail businesses must record details of all people’s movement on their premises. This includes all employees, visitors and customers. You must keep people 1 metre apart, where practical. Retail Retail businesses do not need to record details of their customers. This includes shopping malls, supermarkets, marketplaces, takeaway food and retail stores. You must keep records of your employees and any visitors, such as maintenance workers or suppliers. You must keep customers 2 metres apart, where practical. If you operate two separate services on the same premises, you’ll need to collect contact tracing information for non-retail services. For example, a garden centre and café that operate from the same premise can both do so, but the café must keep records of its customers as a hospitality business. There are multiple different ways you can set up a contact tracing register. For example, a paper register, using an app or scanning a membership card. If you have an existing booking system , such as a hairdresser or doctor, consider whether you can use that to meet your record-keeping requirements . Your contact tracing register or record-keeping system must collect people’s: There are many different apps you can use to collect information to help with contact tracing. The Ministry of Health has created a tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where someone has scanned so they know where they have been. Create your QR code poster with Business Connect (external link) How to download NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) If you have questions about NZ COVID Tracer, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 or email tracingapp-feedback@health.govt.nz . You should make sure your register is hygienic. Assign an employee to complete the register for your team or visitors, so only 1 person is touching the pen and paper. Or sanitise the pen after every use and ask people to sanitise their hands before and after writing their details. If you’re using paper registers, it’s best for privacy and security if: More information on keeping records secure and private Whenever you collect personal information you need to treat it with care and keep it safe. This means you must: There are specific requirements and guidelines depending on how you’re collecting personal information for contact tracing. Retail businesses, such as shopping malls, supermarkets, marketplaces, takeaway food and retail stores, do not need to record details of their customers.  Privacy Commissioner information on privacy and contact tracing (external link) How the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases Last modified: 20 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: Do everything you can to reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work — we all have a part to play in keeping each other safe. At Alert Level 2 businesses can have customers on their premises. Retail businesses, including markets, malls and takeaway stores: There is no maximum number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars must: Customers can visit a counter to order and collect food and drink in a café or fast food restaurant, but not in on-licence and club licence premises. For example, cafés that can’t serve alcohol can provide counter service but a bar or licensed restaurant can’t. Once a person orders or collects food, they must return to their seat if they are dining in. Businesses can also operate with defined, separated areas. The 100 person maximum applies per area, as long as intermingling in common spaces, such as entrances, exits and toilets, can be prevented. Indoor areas must be separated by permanent or temporary walls.  Outdoor areas must be separated by physical distancing or barriers. Hospitality venues can operate two or more businesses on the same premises, provided customers don’t move back and forth between spaces. For example, a customer can order and eat food in the restaurant and then go to the gaming room afterwards. Each space must have contact tracing. Hospitality venues can hire their premises or a defined space out exclusively for a social gathering such as a wedding, birthday party, or post-funeral drinks, and the social gatherings rules will apply instead of hospitality business rules. More information on gatherings and events Some businesses will need close personal contact with customers to deliver a service. This includes: These businesses can open if they: Hairdressers, and other similar workers, don't need to wear personal protective equipment, like masks. We expect, however, that many workers and customers may want hairdressers, and other similar workers, to wear masks when we first move to Alert Level 2. Front-line health workers are eligible for funded temporary accommodation if they: Full details, including how to apply, are available from the Ministry of Health. Funded temporary accommodation for front-line workers (external link) Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different alert level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 alert levels (external link) WorkSafe has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan – what you need to think about (external link) Our Business Toolkit has resources, like posters and templates, to help your business work safely. Business Toolkit A free helpline service has been launched for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If your question cannot be answered immediately you will be supported through the process to get assistance from the Regional Business Partner network. All businesses, except retail, are required to record details of all people’s movement on their premises. Information for businesses on how to put contact tracing in place We need all New Zealanders to work together to make Alert Level 2 a success. As the regulator, WorkSafe will carry out spot checks to make sure businesses and workers are operating safely under the Alert Level 2 guidance. If you have concerns about a business, report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Make a report to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) While businesses are free to set their own prices, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. Many sectors are facing a very difficult time, however, MBIE would like to remind businesses about their obligations under the Fair Trading Act and encourage them to extend their kindness to their customers by: Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL)  Under Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers, and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Businesses must self-assess their ability to meet these restrictions and operate safely, just as they would normally to meet their duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. Government agencies will not make these decisions for businesses. You must comply with the following rules at Alert Level 3. More information on operating a business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations that were deemed essential under Alert Level 4 can continue to operate under Alert Level 3 as they have been. Any business providing necessities must minimise, or eliminate if possible, physical interactions among staff and with and between customers ensure appropriate health, hygiene and safety measures are in place. For example, dairies and petrol stations can remain open at all Alert Levels, if they can operate safely. At Alert Level 3, prepared food and drink can be bought and sold, but cannot be consumed by customers onsite. Retail stores and hospitality businesses such as bars and cafes may operate, but customers cannot enter the premises. Delivery, or drive-through or contactless pick up by customers is allowed. Customers can pay in cash if there is no alternative, but try to handle the cash using self-checkout kiosks or cleaning hands well after handling. Customers can’t consume food or drink on your premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, they must manage food safety risks and adhere to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: During Alert Level 3, most work can be carried out in the building and construction sector. Guidance for the building and construction sector (external link) All goods can be delivered, including food. The delivery must be contactless. Alcohol can be delivered if the business has an off-licence. You can provide certain services in home, provided physical distancing and other public health guidance is observed. However, house cleaning is not allowed. If you are going into people’s homes or workplaces to do work, you can give them this information sheet: Staying safe and well when having work done at home or work [PDF, 28 KB] You can use and display the Safe business declaration sheet in your workplace. Safe business declaration sheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] Government agencies will not determine if individual businesses can operate, nor will they keep a register of businesses that meet the guidelines. WorkSafe has guidance to help you determine if your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan – what you need to think about (external link) Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different alert level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 alert levels (external link) Our Business Toolkit has resources, like posters and templates, to help your business operate safely. Business Toolkit A free helpline service has been launched for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If your question cannot be answered immediately you will be supported through the process to get assistance from the Regional Business Partner network. If you are a business owner or workplace manager, you need to have a COVID-19 safety plan to manage how you and your staff are going to work safely and healthily in a COVID-19 environment. You need to work closely with staff in developing your plan and it must be shared with all staff. Templates and guidance are available on the WorkSafe website. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) If you have questions about the guidance, call your industry body, or WorkSafe. There are still restrictions on travel under Alert 3. If you need to travel for work, the Ministry of Transport has guidance covering what you need to consider when travelling. Transport and travel by alert level (external link) If you are travelling with colleagues, such as in a car together, WorkSafe has guidance on how to do this safely. Travelling in vehicles for work (external link) We need all New Zealanders to work together to make Alert Level 3 a success. As the regulator, WorkSafe will carry out spot checks to make sure businesses and workers are operating safely under the Alert Level 3 guidance. If you have concerns about a business, report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Make a report to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) To stop the spread of COVID-19, it’s important to keep track of people’s movements. Contact tracing helps us do that. With contact tracing, a business records details of all personal movement at their workplaces. This is saved in case we need to contact people who have been exposed to COVID-19. Businesses operating at Alert Level 3 must record everyone who visits their workplace and save their contact information. That means you must have a contact tracing register. All people on-site – employees and visitors – must sign your register. Make sure it is done every day, including weekends and after hours. The Ministry of Health or District Health Boards may contact a business if a person is diagnosed with COVID-19 and the business is a potential contact. They will ask for your register for the time that person visited. Contact tracing information will not be used for any other purpose. Your contact tracing register or record-keeping system must collect employees or visitors': Make sure you meet contact tracing requirements: Information about how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases: Contact tracing for COVID-19 You can use and display the Safe business declaration sheet in your workplace. Safe business declaration sheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] Last modified: 15 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: Normal obligations to keep in regular contact and to act in good faith are more important than ever. This is how employers and employees can be kind to one another. Regular employment law applies to all employment relationships — regardless of the circumstances that you find yourself in. This includes anything that has been agreed to in an employment agreement. If a worker believes there are reasons why it is not safe for them to be at work, or if they have concerns that they could be putting a member of their household at risk, they should let their manager know. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, addressing health and safety concerns, and modifying or terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) You should check your visa if you are working in New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen or permanent resident. Immigration New Zealand has relaxed the visa conditions and extended visas for many overseas employees. More information about visas for employees Information for contractors and the self-employed Last modified: 27 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL) The list below provides a sector-level overview of the essential businesses and services. This includes any critical suppliers in their supply chains, such as a firm repairing IT and data infrastructure for an essential service can remain in operation. This was last updated at 4pm, 8 April 2020. Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Lead agency: Customs New Zealand Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Lead agency: Ministry of Justice Protocols setting out the arrangements for each court, including arrangements made for remote appearances and the circumstances in which people may need to appear in person are in operation. Lead agency: Ministry of Education Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Lead agencies: Financial Markets Authority and Reserve Bank of New Zealand Lead agency: Ministry of Health Lead agencies: Department of Internal Affairs (local government) and State Services Commission (national government) Lead agency: Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Lead agency: Ministry for Primary Industries Lead agency: National Emergency Management Agency Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Lead Agency: Ministry of Social Development/Oranga Tamariki Lead agency: Ministry of Transport Lead agency: Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment, and Ministry for Culture and Heritage for broadcasting For the avoidance of doubt, sectors and occupations specified in the following are also considered essential: This was last updated at 11am, 16 April 2020. Note this reflects guidance for essential services at Alert Level 4, issued between 26 March and 27 April 2020. It does not necessarily mean these services will be operating the same way at different Alert Levels. Airbnb is considered to be an essential service but must operate under very strict protocols and management of access conditions. Backpacker accommodation providers may continue to operate under very strict protocols and management of access conditions. Campgrounds may continue to operate under very strict protocols and management of access. Some property management services may be considered essential, for example urgent maintenance to ensure the supply of essential services gas, water, power, waste. All other property management activities are considered non-essential and therefore must be conducted remotely, or deferred until end of Alert Level 4. Real estate services, such as the sale and purchase of houses, are not considered to be essential. All real estate business must be undertaken from home. At Alert Level 4, alcohol is available to be purchased in supermarkets, and Licensing Trust stores in the four areas where Licensing Trusts hold a monopoly. The four areas where Licensing Trusts have a monopoly are Invercargill, Waitakere (West Auckland), Portage (West Auckland) and Mataura (Gore). Open liquor store premises can only operate with a one-in-one-out rule. All other liquor stores must be closed to the public. The online or remote sale and contactless delivery of alcohol including spirits is permitted under certain conditions. Courier and parcel services should only be used for essential goods during Alert Level 4. During this period, our postal and courier service will be busy helping our society receive items and goods that are essential. Adding additional pressure and burden to that service may impact on society's wider ability to get through this period, and to stop the virus in its tracks. Businesses are able to sell essential non-food consumer products, provided they do so in a way that protects the public and minimises the risk of COVID-19 spreading. Registration with MBIE is required. From Tuesday, 14 April 2020 urgent maintenance of turf and care for plants in nurseries will be permitted under Alert Level 4 restrictions. Aircraft can be maintained according to manufacturers' maintenance instructions during Alert Level 4. Bunnings, Placemakers, Mitre 10 and other retailers essential to the supply chain for building and construction can stay open to trade customers for essential purposes only. They will not be open to the public. Disposal of waste, including recycling, is an essential service and may continue to operate during Alert Level 4. Individual operators have responsibilities to appropriately meet the health, safety and security requirements of their staff and customers, and should not operate if they feel they cannot do so. Locksmiths can undertake essential work on emergency call-outs and essential activity to maintain the security of premises/personal properties. Pest management may be undertaken only where required for human health and safety, and it is essential during the Alert Level 4 period. However, operators must ensure people have somewhere safe to go while the process is underway, in particular where a property is being vacated. Road safety equipment for road construction should only be used only where maintenance is essential. Security is considered an essential service, even if security services are being provided in relation to a premise for a non-essential service. Tradespeople can do maintenance if it is to maintain the necessities of life or critical to safety. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Vehicle washing services must only be undertaken when supporting essential services to ensure they are complying with the necessary health and safety requirements, for example washing off contaminated or biohazard materials. Veterinary and animal health/welfare services are essential services, and pet food is a fast-moving consumer good. Pet food is available at supermarkets and vets. Travel to look after animals is allowed, as long as you take the necessary health measures, and comply with any region-specific travel measures. Food delivery, other than cooked meals such as takeaways, is allowed. This includes supermarket home delivery, food parcels from charitable organisations, frozen pre-prepared meals, subscription food boxes or any other whole-food delivery service. Meals-on-Wheels may continue to deliver prepared food. Food banks are considered an essential social service. Food banks must operate a one-in-one-out rule, and cannot sell or provide cooked food. Shopfronts of butchers, bakers, and fruit and vegetable suppliers are not permitted to open during Alert Level 4. Contactless delivery of whole foods from butchers, bakers, and fruit and vegetable suppliers is permitted during the Alert Level 4 period. This includes delivery to consumers’ homes, and for the supply of supermarkets, dairies, and whole food delivery providers. Operations must follow strict COVID-19 health guidelines, orders must be taken online or via telephone, and delivery must not involve any interaction with the receiver. Whole foods includes bread, meat, fish, fruit and vegetables, and specifically excludes cooked or prepared foods such as takeaways. Frozen pre-prepared meals not chilled are allowed for contactless delivery under COVID-19 Alert Level 4. All supermarkets and dairies are considered essential services. A supermarket's primary focus is selling food products, and is a retail store operating on a self-service basis, selling groceries, fresh produce, meat, bakery and dairy products, and sometimes an assortment of non-food goods. Dairies must operate a one-in-one-out rule, and can sell food that has been prepared and pre-packaged off-site by a supplier as well as pre-packaged food that needs to be heated such as pies and sausage rolls.  They cannot sell food or drink that has been prepared or cooked onsite including coffee, milkshakes, or made-to-order sandwiches. Convenience stores at service stations can operate using the one-in-one-out rule. They cannot sell food or drink that has been prepared or cooked onsite including coffee, milkshakes, or made-to-order sandwiches. Convenience stores at service stations can sell pre-packaged food that has been prepared off-site and delivered, which can then be heated on-site if required. This includes pre-packaged pies and sausage rolls. Click and collect services can only be offered by supermarkets at Alert Level 4. No other click and collect services should be offered by any other businesses to consumers at this time. Essential surveying, that is critical to the supply chain of an essential service, may operate at Alert Level 4. Surveying should only be carried out if the service is immediately required for the continuation of essential services, or to prevent the failure of an essential service in Alert Level 4. Surveying for a non-essential service should not be carried out during Alert Level 4. If essential surveying for essential services is carried out, this should be done in a way that limits the transmission of COVID-19. With regard to aerial surveying, businesses should comply with all aviation requirements and directions from applicable authorities. Self-service laundries can stay open. While recruitment for essential services positions may be considered essential, this should be done entirely remotely, from home. Rental cars may be accessed in some circumstances. Self-storage facilities can operate only to facilitate access for essentials. New sales or expiries of units are considered non-essential. Access to existing lockers is permitted for essential items or services only, for example fridges. Critical support services to ensure businesses and workers can continue working from home are considered to be essential. This includes functions such as IT and payroll. The sale, installation and repair of connectivity devices, for example, TVs, mobile phones, smart phones, telephones, computers, modems/internet, radios is considered to be essential for the maintenance of connectivity. Installation and repair may continue where it is essential for the maintenance of connectivity, for example, to conduct essential business, receive news or contact a doctor. Sale, installation and repair may not occur where it is duplicating or upgrading items. Unions can operate, ensuring that all non-essential activity is conducted from home or remotely. Unions may only attend premises in exceptional circumstances, like for essential health and safety or security issues. Methanex can remain in production, but at a scale consistent with the stability of gas supply. NZ Steel is to shut down in a way that allows for production to recommence easily. Pulp and paper plants are to shut down their non-essential elements in a way that allows for production to recommence easily, and while maintaining essential production. The Tiwai Point smelter is exempt from closure. Last modified: 1 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Wage Subsidy Scheme supports employers adversely affected by COVID-19. The scheme helps employers and their staff to maintain an employment connection and ensure an income for affected employees, even if the employee is unable to actually work any hours. It is also available to sole traders and contractors. More information and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme provides a payment to businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19 public health guidance. More information and how to apply (external link) Small and medium-sized businesses may be eligible for the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme to protect jobs and support the economy. The Crown in partnership with participating approved banks will support targeted new loans including increases to existing limits to eligible businesses, as a response to difficulties caused by COVID-19. Information about the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme (external link) The government has implemented measures to support business cash flow and tax measures. COVID-19 tax relief measures (external link) Inland Revenue will provide interest-free loans for a year to small businesses impacted by the COVID-19 economic shock. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme will provide assistance of up to $100,000 to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within a year. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. How to apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) The Government has changed the Companies Act to help businesses facing insolvency due to COVID-19. This includes a COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation regime that allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Other measures include a safe harbour from sections 135 and 136 of the Companies Act 1993, and other corporate governance changes (terms and obligations will apply). Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) Māori communities and businesses can access help tailored to meet the specific needs of Māori in the face of COVID-19. These include: Read the Government’s media release (external link) You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to find out your personal circumstances: The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you could access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use COVID-19 financial support tool Last modified: 27 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL) All guidance that applies to businesses also applies to all other workplaces, including non-government organisations (NGOs) and charities. Guidance for businesses at Alert Level 2 Along with businesses, NGOs and charities need to keep their employees safe while at work, including people doing voluntary or charity work. This includes ensuring limited physical interactions between employees, high standards of hygiene and keeping a contact tracing register . Guidance for how businesses can keep their workplace safe If you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you don’t need to now. The Ministry of Social Development has provided guidance if you're a social service providing face-to-face contact in communities during COVID-19. It includes the basics of hygiene, and guidance about personal protective equipment (PPE) — who should use it, how to use it and distribution. Personal protective equipment guidance for social services (external link) NGOs and registered charities that meet the other eligibility criteria may apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme. This scheme supports employers adversely affected by COVID-19 to continue to pay their employees. Find out more about the Wage Subsidy Scheme and other types of financial support available Last modified: 26 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Find out what financial support you could access.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Treasury is publishing weekly economic updates, including a dashboard report tracking the impacts of COVID-19 on the economy. The dashboard provides real-time domestic and international data. It is designed to assist independent analysis, or give businesses a sense of what is happening across different parts of the economy. Read the latest economic updates from the Treasury (external link) Last modified: 28 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Information for employees on financial support, and working with your employer to stay safe and slow the spread of COVID-19. Information on the wage subsidy scheme and COVID-19 leave support scheme for employees. Employers and employees need to work together to slow the spread of COVID-19, protect New Zealand and keep each other safe. Information on keeping safe at work, including for physical and close contact jobs.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: The Wage Subsidy scheme: Employees cannot apply directly for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy. However, your employer may be able to apply to help cover your wages. You can ask your employer if they have applied for you. The scheme is paid at a flat rate of: The subsidy is paid as a lump sum and covers 12 weeks per employee. The amount paid to you may differ due to deductions (like tax) and your employment circumstances. Organisations can only apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy for employees who are legally working in New Zealand. This includes people on work visas or student visas with conditions that allow them to work. To qualify, the organisation you work for must meet the following criteria: If your employer is eligible and has not applied, but has proposed to reduce your pay, they need to explain to you in good faith why they have not applied. More information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) You can see which businesses have received payments under the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme on the Work and Income website. COVID-19 Wage Subsidy employer search (external link) This information has been published to ensure payments under the Wage Subsidy Scheme are transparent and that the scheme is accountable to the public. If you believe your employer is receiving the subsidy, but not meeting the conditions they agreed to, talk to your employer first. If the issue is not resolved, you can make a complaint to Employment New Zealand. Make a complaint about your employer (external link) This scheme helps eligible businesses pay their employees who can’t come into work because public health guidelines recommend they stay at home, and they can't work from home. Your employer will make the application for support to pay you. If you’re self-employed or working as a contractor, you can apply directly yourself. The scheme is paid at the same rates as the Wage Subsidy scheme. From 28 April, the COVID-19 Leave Support scheme covers all workers outside of the state sector. Applications for the COVID-19 Leave Support scheme can be made from 1 May. How to apply for the Leave Support Scheme (external link) You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to find out your personal circumstances: The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you could access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use COVID-19 financial support tool If you are experiencing financial distress, you may be able to get help from Work and Income. Check what support you might be able to get on the online eligibility guide. More information on financial support for individuals Last modified: 27 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: If you believe there are reasons why it's not safe for you to be at work, or if you have concerns that you could be putting a member of your household at risk, you should let your manager know. If you might be sick with COVID-19, or have had close contact with someone with COVID-19, you should not go into work at any Alert Level. Businesses must not allow or ask employees to work in these situations. COVID-19 symptoms and what to do if you have them If you or someone you live with may be at higher risk of severe illness from contracting COVID-19, you should discuss these concerns with your employer. Employees and employers should agree whether such workers can work from home or change their workplace arrangements to minimise the risks. Guidelines for people at higher risk of COVID-19 Businesses need to meet their health and safety obligations at all Alert Levels, including engaging staff and managing risks. If you are concerned these are not being met, you can raise it with your health and safety representative, union, or notify WorkSafe. Do everything you can to reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work — we all have a part to play in keeping each other safe. The key public health requirements are the same at Alert Level 2. You should maintain hygiene measures, including physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Guidance for employers on doing business safely at Alert Level 2 To open under Alert Level 3, the business owner or your manager needs to have a COVID-19 safety plan in place. They should work closely with you when developing the plan, which should outline how you can work healthily and safely in a COVID-19 environment. The final plan needs to be shared with all staff who work at the business. Businesses must comply with the following rules at Alert Level 3. Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations that were deemed essential under Alert Level 4 can continue to operate under Alert Level 3 as they have been. In an uncontrolled environment, such as interactions between the members of the public, a distance of 2 metres is appropriate. However, a workplace is a controlled environment and this means that risks can be managed in other ways. For example, using screens or personal protective equipment like masks and gloves may allow you to safely work at smaller distances. Don’t do activities alone if it is unsafe to do so. For example, you may need 2 people to lift heavy items safely. Consider whether you can use equipment instead. Or if the task isn’t urgent, consider leaving it until you can better manage all health and safety risks. Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Mā tātau katoa e ārai atu te COVID-19. Iwi and Māori with Government agencies are working together to slow the spread of COVID-19. Bula vinaka, fakaalofa lahi atu, fakatalofa atu, kia orana, ko na mauri, malo e lelei, mālō nī, noa’ia, talofa lava, tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. The latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information and advice in other formats for people with particular accessibility needs. Information and advice translated into different languages. Advice about gatherings and public events, refunds for events, and reporting breaches of self-isolation. Advice for community groups, faith-based groups, clubs, societies, homeless shelters and volunteer groups. Advice for religious communities around COVID-19.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Information and advice in other formats for people with particular accessibility needs. Advice in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information in Easy Read and Simplified Easy Read. Information in Large Print and audio formats. Animated videos with simplified advice and guidance.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. What to do in Alert Level 2 (external link) What to do if you are more at risk at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Levels 2 and 3 (external link) Work at Alert Level 3 (external link) Food and shopping at Alert Level 3 (external link) Education at Alert Level 3 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Levels 2 and 3 (external link) Travel, exercise and recreation at Alert Level 3 (external link) Extending your bubble at Alert Level 3 (external link) Transcript of this video Staying at home during Alert Level 3 (external link) Transcript of this video Looking after your mental wellbeing during COVID-19 (external link) Transcript of this video Food and shopping at Alert Level 4 (external link) Transcript of this video Interaction with others during Alert Level 4 (external link) Staying at home during Alert Level 4 (external link) Transcript of this video Are you struggling? (external link) Tips to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing during COVID-19 (external link) Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Visual Black text on a yellow background. Audio This is a New Zealand Government Unite against COVID-19 message. Visual A diagonal yellow and white striped background, similar to hazard tape, with black text across it. Audio Alert Level 3. Making your bubble bigger. Visual In cartoon form, a black outline of a person in a white bubble, which stretches to contain a child, a person using a wheelchair and a person pushing the wheelchair. Audio After four weeks in Level 4, all of us have gotten pretty used to staying in our bubble. Our bubble is the people we live with or any essential support workers. Visual The bubble grows, and a person using a walking stick appears in the bubble with the group. Audio Now we are in Level 3, we can expand our bubble a little. Close family and caregivers can now be included in our bubble, as well as any isolated people who have been by themselves. Visual A black map of New Zealand on a white background. Zooming in on the North Island, two white circles appear close to each other. In each circle is a black house. Audio These people don't need to live in the same household as you, but they must live local to you. Visual A circle around one of the houses grows and envelops the other house in its circle. Audio You can only include one other household in your bubble. Visual A yellow outlined bubble with a house and a person using a cane inside it. Beside it, a person in another bubble with their house. Audio If you live on your own, you can extend your bubble to include someone else who lives alone. Visual The two people move close, their bubbles merging into a single bubble that contains both of them. Audio The main thing to remember is to keep your bubble safe and small. Visual A circle with one person in it beside a larger circle with five people in it. Audio Once your bubble has been extended, you must protect it. Visual Between the two circles appears a red thumbs down sign. Audio Keep your bubble exclusive, and don't include anyone who might put your bubble at risk. Visual Next to the circle with five people appears a bubble with one person holding a hand to their mouth with wiggly lines around them, signalling them coughing. A red thumbs down sign appears between the five-person bubble and the coughing-person bubble. One of the people in the five-person bubble disappears. Audio If you are concerned about having contact with more people, it's OK to keep the same bubble you had during Level 4. Visual A bubble with a house in it. A person carries a briefcase from the house and moves towards a car in a garage. Audio People within your bubble may be going to work now too. Visual A yellow speech bubble with a question mark in it appears above a person using a walking stick inside a five-person bubble. Audio If you are older or have a health condition, you are at greater risk. You may want to talk to people in your bubble about what they can do to make sure they are still keeping you safe. Visual A suburban street, along which a person carries groceries, another person cycles a bike, and a car passes by along the road. Audio Level 3 might feel very different to Level 4. There will be more people outside, at work and moving around your area, and you might have to be extra careful to keep a safe distance. Visual A child separates from the five-person bubble, as does an adult. Audio The other people in your bubble may be going back to work, school or other activities now too. Visual Two soapy hands below a running tap and a towel hanging on a rail beside the tap. Audio It is really important that everyone in your bubble knows what to do to keep you safe — whether they are at home or out and about. Visual Two white bubbles — one with a person holding a briefcase and one with a person using a wheelchair. In the space between them appears a black line with an arrow at both ends, signalling them keeping 2 metres apart. Audio Talk to the people around you about how you can look after each other during Level 3. Visual On a white background, a black outline of a person holds a phone to their ear. A yellow thought bubble with a sad face in it appears above their head. Audio If you are feeling sad or worried, you can call or text 1737 to talk to a counsellor. Visual Half of the screen becomes yellow with black text, and a speech bubble appears beside the person’s mouth. The sad face in their thought bubble becomes a smiling face. Audio The number is open all day and night and it is free. Visual In the five-person bubble, a person holds a hand to their mouth. Wiggly lines around them indicates them coughing, and they turn from black to red. The person then slides out of the group bubble and into a smaller separate bubble. Audio If anyone in your bubble becomes unwell, they should isolate themselves and keep their distance until they become well again. Visual A black map of New Zealand on a white background. On the North Island, a yellow dot in the Auckland region appears, and a yellow line moves across the island, connecting to a yellow dot in the Wellington region. Audio If you were in the wrong place when Level 4 started and you want to get home, you can now do so. Visual A white car appears at the Auckland dot and slides down the line to the Wellington dot. Audio Remember, you are only allowed to move in one direction, which means once you move, you cannot go back again while we are in Level 2. Visual Two houses next to each other. Above one of the houses, three red speech bubbles appear with exclamation marks in them. Audio One reason to break your bubble is if you feel anyone is in serious danger. Visual A person in the other households a phone to their ear. A yellow background with black text beside an outline of a phone. Audio If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police on 111 , even if you're not sure. Visual Two black phone outlines appear, beside black text and numbers. Audio For non-emergency information on family violence, you can call the It’s Not OK family violence information line for free on 0800 456 450 or the 2Shine national helpline on 0508 744 633 . Visual A diagonal yellow and white striped background, similar to hazard tape, with black text across it. Audio Visit health.govt.nz/COVID19-disability (external link) or call 0800 611 116 for free any time. Last modified: 15 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Visual Black text on a yellow background. Audio This is a New Zealand Government Unite against COVID-19 message. Visual A diagonal yellow and white striped background, similar to hazard tape, with black text across it. Audio Alert Level 4. Food and shopping. Visual In cartoon form, a building with large windows and a large circular logo above it of a shopping trolley. A sign hanging in one of the windows reads “open”. Audio During Alert Level 4, supermarkets and some dairies will remain open, as will pharmacies. Visual A person emerges from the building, pushing a supermarket trolley. Audio You'll still be able to buy food and medication, and some businesses that produce food and drink will still be allowed to run. Visual A person using a walking stick moves towards the supermarket, followed by a couple holding hands, one of them also holding the hand of a child, and a person using a wheelchair. They stop moving and stand still. One of the adults in the couple moves inside, leaving the other person outside with the child. Audio However, the rules for how you buy food, drink and medication are different. Firstly, most shops will only let a small number of people inside at one time, so you might have to wait outside for a while. Some shops might only let one person from each household come inside at a time. Visual Two people stand with a double-pointed arrow between them, indicating a 2-metre distance. Audio Make sure you keep a 2 metre distance from anyone you see, even if you know them. Visual Two shopping trolleys appear below the arrow between the two people. Audio That's about the length of two shopping trolleys. Visual Two black and white storefronts, one with a yellow symbol above of a knife and fork, and one with a yellow symbol above of a bottle. The knife and fork symbol goes black and the door closes, with a “closed” sign in the window. The bottle symbol goes black, and the door of the shop closes and a roller door covers the window. Audio Dairies will no longer be allowed to sell food they've cooked themselves, and all cafes, bars, restaurants and takeaways are closed. Most liquor shops are closed too. Visual A van with a shopping trolley symbol on its side drives along a suburban street. Audio Supermarkets can deliver food in some areas, as will some dairies. Visual Inside a house, a person sits at a table facing a laptop, while another person stands nearby holding a phone to their ear, a yellow speech bubble appearing beside their mouth. Audio You can order groceries on your supermarket's website, or contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Visual A laptop sits open. On the screen are blocks of lines and a symbol of a shopping trolley in the top right corner.  The arrow pointer of a mouse ticks a box on the screen. Audio Priority delivery slots may be available for disabled people. Visual A black van with a shopping trolley logo and the word “priority” on its side. Three dotted yellow lines branch out from the van, connecting to three separate circles. The top circle shows a person using a wheelchair; the middle circle shows a person using a walking stick, and the bottom circle shows someone standing beside a pill bottle and tablets. Audio Priority delivery slots mean that people who cannot leave their house have a better chance of getting their groceries delivered. Visual A person holding a bag of food moves towards a house. Audio You may want to ask someone you trust like a family member, friend or neighbour to pick up your groceries for you. Visual A black line with an arrow at both ends appears between the person holding groceries and the front door. Audio But, remember, if this person doesn't live with you or isn't your essential support worker, you need to stay 2 metres away from them at all times. This means you shouldn't let them inside your home. Visual Two bags of food are left sitting beside the house and the person heads away. Audio Ask them to leave the groceries at the door. Visual A van passes by with a knife and fork logo on its side. Audio Food bag or food box services will remain open, as will Meals on Wheels. Visual A person stands at a counter with a can on it. On the side of the bench are the words “food bank”. Behind the counter are shelves with bottles, cans and boxes. Audio Food banks will remain open too. Visual The person picks up the can from the counter and smiles. Audio If you cannot afford to buy food or no one is getting food for you, your local food bank might be able to help. Visual On a yellow background, a person holds a phone to their ear, and a white speech bubble appears beside their mouth. Beside them is black text. Audio You can call the phone directory for free on 018 to find out the contact number for your local food bank. Visual A diagonal yellow and white striped background, similar to hazard tape, with black text across it. Audio Visit health.govt.nz/COVID19-disability (external link) or call 0800 611 116 for free any time. Last modified: 15 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Visual Black text on a yellow background. Audio This is a New Zealand Government Unite against COVID-19 message. Visual A diagonal yellow and white striped background, similar to hazard tape, with black text across it. Audio Alert Level 4. Interaction with others. Visual In cartoon form, three black outlined people stand in a row – one using a walking stick, one standing upright and one using a cane. Audio The best way to stop the COVID-19 virus from spreading is to keep people away from each other. Visual A gap increases between the three people Audio The more distance we keep, the less chance the virus has to spread. Visual Two double-pointed black arrows appear between the three people, indicating a distance of 2 metres between them. A person joins the row, pushing another person who’s using a wheelchair, and a double-pointed arrow appears between them and the next person in the row. Audio For this to work, you need to stay at least 2m away from other people, except for people who live in the same house as you or are an essential support worker. These people are in your bubble, so it's safe to be around them. Visual A person lying in a bed. Above the bed is a black line with an arrow on both sides, indicating a distance of 2 metres. Audio Remember, 2 metres is about the same distance as a bed. Visual Three yellow circles on a white background, connected by dotted yellow lines. In each circle is a person, one holding a phone to their ear, one typing on a smartphone and one sitting in front of a laptop computer. Audio If you want to talk to friends and whanau, it's best to call, text or video chat instead of meeting up. Visual A person stands behind a fence separating two houses, a yellow speech bubble appearing beside their mouth. On the other side of a fence, a person faces them from beside their house, and a yellow speech bubble appears beside their mouth. A black double-pointed line appears between the two people, indicating 2 metres of distance. Audio Chatting to a neighbour is fine, but only if you do it over the fence and make sure you are 2 metres away from them at all times. Visual Two people with a child between them. A house appears on each side of the group, and two bubbles encompass the group and split into two, one taking a parent and child to one house, and the other bubble taking the other parent to their house. Audio Children can travel between two houses if their parents don't live together but only in the same town or city. Visual A person carries a bag of groceries towards a house. In the doorway, a person leans on a walking stick. Audio Some people will need help getting food during this time, like grandparents. Visual A double-pointed black line appears between the doorway of the house and the person with groceries to indicate a distance of 2 metres. Audio You are allowed to drop off groceries to people who need them, but only if you follow the 2 metre rule and keep a safe distance. Visual The person places the groceries down and leaves. Audio You must not enter the house. Visual Beside another house is a van with a shopping trolley logo on the side. Beside the van, a person wearing a shirt with a shopping trolley logo on it stands with bags of groceries. Audio The rules are the same if someone is bringing you groceries. Visual A person appears in the doorway of the house, below which a black double-pointed line indicates 2 metres of distance between the doorway and the delivery person. Audio They must keep a 2 metre distance, and they must not enter your house. Visual On a yellow background, a person holds a phone up to their ear, and a white speech bubble grows beside their mouth. Black text appears next to the person. Audio If you need help, information or advice while you are staying at home, you can call the government COVID-19 helpline on 0800 779 997 . It’s open every day from 8am till 10pm and it is free to call. Visual A diagonal yellow and white striped background, similar to hazard tape, with black text across it. Audio Visit health.govt.nz/COVID19-disability (external link) or call 0800 611 116 for free any time. Last modified: 15 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Visual Black text on a yellow background. Audio This is a New Zealand Government Unite against COVID-19 message. Visual A diagonal yellow and white striped background, similar to hazard tape, with black text across it. Audio Looking after your mental well-being. Visual In cartoon form, a black outline of a person with a yellow thought bubble appearing above them. In the thought bubble is a sad face with an open mouth. Audio Even if you are not sick with COVID-19, you might be feeling worried about it. Visual A different face appears in the thought bubble, with eyebrows angled inward, indicating anger. A different face appears, with a mouth that droops downwards. Another face with eyes closed and mouth open. Audio You might feel angry, you might feel sad, or you might feel lonely. Visual Other people appear beside the person — a person using a walking stick, a person using a cane, a man holding a girl’s hand and a person using a wheelchair. They all have yellow thought bubbles with sad, angry and lonely faces in them. Audio Lots of other people around New Zealand are feeling the same way. Visual Three dotted yellow lines connect the person to three circular outlines. Audio Here are some things to do when you don't feel so good. Visual In one circle is a person holding a phone to their ear, in another circle is a laptop with a person on the screen, and in the third circle is a person looking at a smartphone. Speech bubbles, messages, thumbs up and hearts appear around the outlines Audio Keeping in touch with friends and whanau is a great way to feel better. Visual Speech bubbles, messages, thumbs up and hearts emerge from the three circles. Audio Even though you can't go and visit in person, you can catch up through phone calls, texts, social media, video chat or the New Zealand Relay Service. Visual A person on a white background on one half of the screen; a black and white clock on a yellow background on the other half of the screen. The hands of the clock spin around. Audio It also helps to keep a routine — doing the same things at the same times every day. Visual On the white background, a person lies in a bed. A person sits at a table holding a fork to their mouth in front of a plate of food. A person stands below a running shower head. A person in a running pose. Audio This can be things like going to sleep at the same time, eating meals at the same times, showering at the same time and exercising at the same time. Visual The person runs along a street with black trees and two- and one-storey houses. Audio Exercise and fresh air are particularly important. Visual A person sits in an armchair and points a remote at a black screen mounted on a yellow wall. The screen lights up white, with red text which reads “movies”. Audio Make room for chores, but don't forget time for fun things too. Visual A white background with a person standing beside three yellow bubbles with bottles in them above three yellow circles with cigarettes in them. Beside two of the three bubbles in each row are red thumbs-down signs. Audio And if you smoke, drink or vape, try not to do these things any more than you would normally. Visual Two people stand beside each other, smiling, with red hearts on their chests. A white bubble appears around them, and they gesture to each other, yellow speech bubbles appearing beside their mouths. Audio Most importantly, make sure you share how you are feeling and show kindness to the people around you. Visual Their red hearts pulse. Audio We're all in this together. Visual A diagonal yellow and white striped background, similar to hazard tape, with black text across it. Audio Visit health.govt.nz/COVID19-disability (external link) or call 0800 611 116 for free any time. Last modified: 15 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Visual Black text on a yellow background. Audio This is a New Zealand Government Unite against COVID-19 message. Visual A diagonal yellow and white striped background, similar to hazard tape, with black text across it. Audio Alert Level 3. Staying at home. What it means. Visual In cartoon form, a black map of New Zealand on a white background. Audio New Zealand is moving from Alert Level 4 to Alert Level 3. Visual A row of two and one-storey houses, with people standing in doorways and at windows. Audio This is because all of us have stayed at home and slowed down the spread of COVID-19. Visual A row of six people, including a child, a person using a wheelchair and a person using a walking stick. All of the people are black outlines except for one who is red, who holds a hand to their mouth to cough. A red spiky circle, representing a virus, appears above their head. The five people beside the red coughing person quickly turn red too, and red spiky circles appear above their heads.  The people become black outlines again and stand separately beside each other, with arrows between them indicating a distance of 2 metres. Audio But there's still the chance that COVID-19 can spread again, so we need to follow the rules now just as carefully as we have been. Visual A person bent forward slightly and using a walking stick glows red. Audio If you are over 70 years old or you have a health condition already, like a weak immune system, you are still in the high-risk group. Visual A bullet-pointed list in black text on a yellow background. Audio Other health conditions that could make you more at risk include liver disease, cancer, kidney disease, heart disease and diabetes mellitus. Pregnant people and those on immunosuppressant medications are also at risk. Visual A black house with a person standing in the doorway. Audio If you have any of these conditions, you want to be extra careful. It might even pay to keep following the Level 4 rules and stay in isolation. Visual A row of houses with people standing in their doorways or looking out through windows. Audio In any case, all New Zealanders should be staying at home as much as they can during Level 3. Visual A car passes the houses along a road, and a cyclist pedals in the other direction. A person stands between two houses holding a bag of food. Audio The only reasons to be outside your home are going to work, exercising, getting essential services, like food, medicine or health care. Visual A person on a yellow background lifts a phone to their ear.  A white speech bubble appears beside their mouth, and black text appears beside them which reads “COVID-9 Helpline”. Audio If you are not sure about the health conditions you have or how safe activities will be for you, you can call your GP or Healthline for advice. Visual A white background with a black map of New Zealand beside the words “News 1pm Daily Updates”. This is framed with a black border and becomes a television which a person in a black armchair holds a remote to. Audio And if you don't have regular access to the internet, make sure you listen to the radio or watch your television. There are updates at 1pm every day. Visual A diagonal yellow and white striped background, similar to hazard tape, with black text across it. Audio Visit health.govt.nz/COVID19-disability (external link) or call 0800 611 116 for free any time. Last modified: 15 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Visual Black text on a yellow background. Audio This is a New Zealand Government Unite against COVID-19 message. Visual A diagonal yellow and white striped background, similar to hazard tape, with black text across it. Audio Alert Level 4. Staying at home. What it means. Visual A black map of New Zealand on a white background. A red spiky circle on a yellow background, indicating a virus. A black and white spinning globe with red spiky circles popping up on different countries. Audio New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. This is because at the moment, a virus called COVID-19 is spreading around the world. Visual A black outline of a person becomes red, and they begin coughing into their hand. Beside them is a person using a walking stick, a woman, a girl holding a man’s hand and a person using a wheelchair. Audio A virus is something that can make people very sick, and it spreads by being passed from one person to another. Visual Above the coughing person appears a red spiky circle, which then appears above all the other people beside the coughing person, turning them all from black to red. Audio Right now, this virus is spreading quickly and making a lot of people very sick. Visual The person using a walking stick, the man and the girl turn black again. The coughing person disappears, and in their place is an outline of a gravestone. Audio Many people will recover, but some people can even die from it. Visual The remaining people spread out, with gaps between them. Audio We know that the virus spreads when people are close to each other or when they are touching the same things. So our government has decided the best way to stop the virus from spreading is to keep people apart. Visual A suburban street with trees, two-storey and one-storey houses and a car in a garage. Audio The best way to keep your distance from other people is to stay at home. Visual Moving close to one of the houses, a person holding a briefcase steps out of the front door. Audio Right now, the only people who are allowed to go to work are our essential workers — people who are providing things like food and medicine that the country needs to keep going. Visual A list with a shopping trolley at the top appears in a thought bubble from a person using a wheelchair, another person holding the handles. Audio So don't worry — we can still get everything important we need to live. Visual The standing person pushes the person using a wheelchair towards a building with a shopping trolley logo on the front. Audio If you do need to leave the house for things, it's important you only go by yourself, with someone you live with or an essential support person. Visual A white circle grows around the two people. Audio These people are your bubble, and you are safe to be around them. Visual A person stands nearby with a full shopping trolley. A black arrow points in both directions between the two people and the person with the trolley, indicating a distance of 2 metres. Audio If you see anyone else, it's important you stay 2 metres away from them, even if you know them. Visual A yellow bed with a person in it drops down above the black arrow. Audio 2 metres is about the same length as your bed. Visual A person in uniform, a yellow speech bubble appearing beside their mouth, and a woman with a yellow speech bubble beside her mouth. Audio You might see more police on the streets talking to people. Visual Three uniformed police officers, the one in front waving. On either side of the officers appear houses and trees. Audio They will be making sure everyone is following the rules and staying home as much as possible. Visual A diagonal yellow and white striped background, similar to hazard tape, with black text across it. Audio Visit health.govt.nz/COVID19-disability (external link) or call 0800 611 116 for free any time. Last modified: 15 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Last modified: 12 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Information about Alert Level 2 including visiting friends and family, leaving your home and contact tracing. Information about Alert Level 3 including staying home, food and shopping, essential services, and recreation and exercise. Information about Alert Level 4 including staying home, food and shopping, essential services, and recreation and exercise. Information about how people can get food during Alert Level 4 and support available to them. Contact details for a range of services that can support you during COVID-19. Information and advice on how people can look after their mental wellbeing. Alert Level 4 welfare information about health and wellbeing, financial support, accommodation support, schools and early childhood, animal welfare, information for international visitors. Information about renting and tenancy during COVID-19, including the rent increase freeze and tenancy terminations. Information about the Total Mobility subsidy. This now applies until 30 June 2020, no matter what the Alert Level is. Last modified: 22 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates, and answers to your FAQs. What is COVID-19? Symptoms (external link) Dedicated 0800 number (external link) Advice on self isolation (external link) How it spreads (external link) Prevention (external link) Immunisation (external link) New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. YouTube playlist about Alert Level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education, including tertiary, at Alert Level 2 (external link) Workplaces and businesses at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and transport at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Disability support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) YouTube playlist about Alert Level 3 (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) YouTube playlist about Alert Level 4 (external link) Staying at home — what it means (external link) Build your bubble (external link) Interaction with others (external link) Keep your routine (external link) How to access healthcare (external link) Recreation or exercise (external link) Public transport and travel (external link) Private vehicles and active travel (external link) Schools and early childhood centres (external link) Public spaces (external link) Essential businesses (external link) Services (external link) Funerals and tangihanga (external link) Domestic air travel (external link) International air travel (external link) Find the facts (external link) YouTube playlist about wellbeing (external link) It's OK to ask for help (external link) It's OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) YouTube playlist of general COVID-19 information (external link) Are you and your whanau unwell? (external link) Food and other things you need to live (external link) Where can I get help with money? (external link) Where can I get financial support? (external link) Accommodation support (external link) Total Mobility Subsidy to 30 June 2020 (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) Last modified: 22 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Advice for community groups, faith-based groups, clubs, societies, homeless shelters and volunteer groups. All groups need to take precautions to protect their members against COVID-19. Advice for homeless shelters to help you look after your attendees, staff, and volunteers. Find ways to safely help others in your community.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: Community groups, clubs and societies can gather for events at Alert Level 2 if you: Social gatherings include family events, religious services and public meetings. Food and drink consumption is fine at gatherings. It should be prepared carefully and served individually, not from a buffet. If a club operates with a club licence to sell alcohol, then it must follow hospitality requirements. You cannot participate in any gatherings or events if you have COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation/quarantine for any reason. More information about gatherings, events and defined spaces More information about hospitality requirements Gatherings of people create a high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Permitted gatherings are very limited at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people can gather only for: No other indoor or outdoor events can proceed. This means groups like clubs or societies cannot meet physically. They can, of course, meet by teleconference or videoconference. To maintain momentum in eliminating COVID-19 gatherings must be kept to a minimum. This will mean the risk of community transmission stays low and our gains from Alert Level 4 aren’t compromised. Funeral and tangi rules Supporting people who work at NGOs and charities Advice for community groups, clubs and societies All indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed. This does not include the workplaces of people undertaking essential businesses. These requirements apply to all community gatherings as well as family and social gatherings, such as birthdays, funerals, tangihanga or weddings. These gatherings cannot go ahead. We are asking you to only spend time with those who you are in self-isolation with, and keep your distance from all others at all times. More information about events and gatherings Guidelines for community organisations working with volunteers at Alert Level 4 [PDF, 368 KB] Supporting people who work at NGOs and charities Advice for community groups, clubs and societies Connect with planning going on in your local community around COVID-19. Your local Civil Defence Emergency Management Group may be able to help give advice for your group. Connect with them at Civil Defence (external link) Place tips and advice about COVID-19 in obvious and visible places, including health tips and where to go for help and advice. Last modified: 29 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Work with them to develop a plan for what to do if a COVID-19 case is suspected or confirmed in or around your facility. Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Kindness is an incredibly powerful way to show we're united against COVID-19. You can make a huge difference by: These connections and support will go a long way to getting others through COVID-19. Volunteers play an important role in supporting New Zealand. It's important to keep volunteers and those they help safe and well. It’s also important to coordinate our efforts so help reaches those who need it and no effort is wasted. The Volunteer Centre network is taking the details of people offering to help. If you would like to volunteer, you can see how you can help on the Volunteering New Zealand website. Contact Volunteering New Zealand (external link) If your group would like to help with COVID-19-related work, please contact your local civil defence or council in the first instance to ensure that your support is coordinated. Contact your local civil defence group Community organisations can operate, and volunteers can resume their duties at Alert Level 2. However, everyone should do everything they can to reduce the risk of transmission. Where it applies, community organisations should follow the guidance that has been provided for businesses and guidance on gatherings. Only organisations that can operate safely may operate during Alert Level 3. People should work from home unless it's not possible. If you're providing services in the community using volunteers you must make sure you operate in a manner that's safe for volunteers and your clients and complies with Alert Level 3 requirements. Find guidelines for the current Alert Level Guidelines for community organisations working with volunteers at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 163 KB] COVID-19 can live on surfaces, so any objects which pass between people are potential ways for the virus to spread. To contain the spread of COVID-19, it is important to comply with restrictions on deliveries and other community work. Support to access essential goods Advice on shopping safely Unless you're undertaking voluntary services under the direction of a recognised service provider, you should only deliver essential supplies to nearby friends, family and whānau, and close neighbours. Do this only if it's absolutely necessary. You should only deliver to a few people and you must remain loyal to these people for the entire period at Alert Levels 3 and 4. The more people you deliver to, the higher the risk. If you know someone that needs help, then let them know about the help available or enquire on their behalf if they are comfortable with you doing so. If they have an urgent need for essential goods that you can’t get or who need help and don’t have anyone who can assist them. People need to feel connected with others, but during this time that connection can’t come from being physically close or chatting in person. Could you spare 20 minutes on the phone to check in and have a conversation? A way to help is for groups to reach out to their networks and see if members can be a friend on the other end of a phone or a video call, especially for those who are on their own, aged over 70 or vulnerable. Anyone can start to feel lonely and most people appreciate a friendly voice on the other end of the phone. It doesn’t have to be about requesting support, it could just be to share some stories and keep in touch. By staying connected in other ways, we may not be as tempted to burst our bubbles and can keep saving lives. Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: The information on this page is also available in other languages: Gatherings can be held with up to 100 people in a defined space. You can have guests over to your home, but gatherings are limited to up to 100 people. This includes the people who usually live in your house. Play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If everybody knows one another and a record of who attended can be easily generated after the event if needed, then you do not have to keep a formal record at the time.  However, if not everybody knows one another you must keep a record of those attending at the time of the event. This needs to include name, what time they were there and one method of contact — either an active email address or phone number. To play it safe, you are encouraged to keep records regardless. You can attend gatherings in controlled settings outside of your home. Social gatherings include: Gatherings must have no more than 100 people in each defined space and keep high hygiene standards. A defined space is an indoor or outdoor space that has walls or partitions that divide it from other spaces. These walls can be permanent or temporary. If outdoor, spaces are divided if everyone in one space is at least 2 metres from those in another space.  Each defined space can have up to 100 people. Hospitality and event facility businesses and social gatherings, including faith-based gatherings and clubs, can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each space. You need to ensure each group does not mingle with other groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. The person responsible must record attendees to ensure contact tracing can happen if necessary. At a social gathering you don’t need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. If your gathering is at a venue or in a defined space you have hired exclusively for the gathering, then the rules on gatherings apply. If you are at a business or service you haven’t hired out, for example dinner with friends at a restaurant, then the rules for businesses and hospitality establishments apply. Doing business at Alert Level 2 Organisers of funerals and tangihanga no longer need to apply to the Ministry of Health to hold one. Information on funerals and tangihanga Faith-based gatherings and clubs are social gatherings and so don’t need to follow the rules for businesses and hospitality. However, if an institution or club operates with a club licence to sell alcohol, then it must follow hospitality requirements. More information for religious communities You shouldn’t participate in any gatherings if you have COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. Gatherings at event facilities include those at: Gatherings must have no more than 100 people in each defined space and keep high hygiene standards. A defined space is an indoor or outdoor space that has walls or partitions that divide it from other spaces. These walls can be permanent or temporary. If outdoor, spaces are divided if everyone in one space is at least 2 metres from those in another space.  Each defined space can have up to 100 people. Event facilities can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each space. You need to ensure each group does not mingle with other groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. The business or person responsible must record attendees to ensure contact tracing can happen if necessary. This will need to happen even if each person knows everyone at the gathering. You should keep 1 metre physical distance from people you don’t know. You shouldn’t participate in any gatherings if you have COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. Many public venues will be open again at Alert Level 2. These include: All public venues must keep records to enable contact tracing. They must also manage their numbers to ensure that every individual or group of people is kept 1 metre apart. Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. At Alert Level 3, we are keeping tight restrictions on gatherings. The only permitted gatherings are for: Keeping these gatherings small means the risk of community transmission stays low and our gains from Alert Level 4 aren’t compromised. Workplaces, education facilities, public transport and supermarkets are not considered gatherings. If a gathering goes ahead, there are additional steps the attendees must take to ensure the gathering is safe. You should: Wedding ceremonies are acceptable gatherings at Alert Level 3 but are limited to 10 people or under. Wedding receptions and other celebrations are not allowed. For those holding a wedding ceremony, the limit means there can only be the couple, the celebrant, a couple of witnesses and a small number of family up to a maximum of 10 people. Other people can still attend through video conferencing. Those who do attend must keep themselves and others safe. Keep a list of those who attend, stay at least 2 meters apart and wash hands regularly. No food or drink should be consumed and there can be no reception. Under the Marriage Act, a marriage can’t happen virtually. The couple, celebrant and witnesses must be physically present in the same place. The Registrar-General’s team is offering refunds to those who cannot use the marriage licence within 3 months of getting it because of COVID-19. Email celebrants@dia.govt.nz for a refund. Funerals and tangihanga are acceptable gatherings at Alert Level 3 but are limited to 10 people or under. No food or drink should be consumed at any gathering, including funerals and tangihanga. More details about funerals and tangihanga People at higher risk to severe illness from COVID-19, for example, those with underlying medical conditions should avoid gatherings at Alert Level 3. At Alert Level 4, we must limit interactions with others as much as possible to stop the spread of COVID-19. This means all indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed. This does not include the workplaces of people undertaking essential businesses. These requirements apply to family and social gatherings such as birthdays, funerals, tangihanga or weddings. These gatherings cannot go ahead. We are asking you only spend time with those who you're in self-isolation with, and keep your distance from all others at all times. Marriage licences are issued by the Registrar-General. The Registrar-General’s role is to The Registrar-General does not approve or decline individual ceremonies. The Registrar-General does not have authority to issue permissions and exemptions for weddings or civil unions. It's up to the couple and the celebrant to use their judgement as to whether the marriage is essential and should proceed. The Registrar-General strongly advises celebrants to carefully consider any request to conduct a marriage and whether it's the right thing to do at this time, taking into account the Ministry of Health’s guidance. Celebrants need to be aware that this is not an essential service. They cannot justify their travel with the need to perform a marriage, even if it’s for someone who may not have long to live. No celebrant is obliged to conduct a ceremony. The Registrar-General advises couples who, for whatever reason, believe that they need to go ahead with a marriage to use a celebrant in their bubble or who lives close by, for example, across the street, and follow the distancing and sanitising guidelines. Under the Marriage Act, a marriage can’t occur virtually and the couple, celebrant and witnesses must be physically present in the same place. The Registrar-General’s team is offering refunds to those who are not able to use the marriage licence within 3 months of getting it because of COVID-19. Simply email celebrants@dia.govt.nz for a refund. Gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. More details about funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4 In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. If you believe you have observed behaviour that's not appropriate, and you're certain the individuals concerned are not following alert level requirements, please complete the Police online report. Police online reporting form (external link) Last modified: 28 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Mā tātau katoa e ārai atu te COVID-19. Iwi and Māori with Government agencies are working together to slow the spread of COVID-19. Information for iwi, hapū and whānau Māori during COVID-19. Te Whare Tapa Whā is a tool we can use to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. Resources to support iwi responding to COVID-19.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Te Arawhiti is the Office for Māori Crown Relations. It has COVID-19 iwi support resources available, including information on funding opportunities and epidemic response plans. You can download templates and view sample response plans made public by other iwi, and a step-by-step guide on applying for funding to support your iwi with their COVID-19 response. Te Arawhiti (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri, the Ministry for Māori Development, has information about key issues that could affect you and your whānau, along with guidance on how to manage the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 information for Māori (external link) Te Kupenga is the Māori Economic Development Unit at the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. Te Kupenga has collated COVID-19 information to support the Māori business community. COVID-19 support for the Māori business community (external link) Television, the internet and hard copy learning packs are some of the ways whānau and ākonga Māori will be supported when schools and kura begin term 2. Media release from Hon Kelvin Davis (external link) The Government announced a plan to support Māori communities and businesses through COVID-19. Media release from Hon Peeni Henare (external link) The Government has allocated $100 million to help redeploy workers affected by the economic impact of COVID-19, with the hard-hit region of Gisborne-Tairāwhiti to be the first helped. Media release from Hon Phil Twyford, Hon Shane Jones and Hon Willie Jackson (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the four cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there's an imbalance or one of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The four cornerstones are: We can slow down the spread of COVID-19 by: If you feel unwell or have any COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . About COVID-19 How Aotearoa is uniting against COVID-19 Our daily lives may look very different now. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you cope with the stress of COVID-19. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting through together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing COVID-19 public health measures may change spiritual practices, but there are ways to stay connected. At Alert Level 2, you can attend spiritual gatherings, including religious services, outside of your home. There are some restrictions in place to manage the risk of spreading COVID-19, including limits on the number of people gathering at the same time. Advice on gatherings and events at Alert Level 2 (external link) Some churches and spiritual groups are leading their services online via websites and social media. Contact your hāhi or church, ask your aunties, uncles, kaumātua, or members of your church or spiritual group about how you can join these services online. Help kaumātua and whānau to search for karakia, hīmene and waiata online. Your iwi will likely have their waiata available online too. Tikanga Māori and gatherings Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch, even if you can’t spend time with people the way you usually would. At Alert Level 2, there is more freedom to move around and reconnect with whānau and friends. We can resume many of our everyday activities — but we have to do so safely. If you have whānau and friends over to your home, make sure you follow the limits on gathering numbers. Play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands, and keep the numbers low so you can maintain safe physical distancing. Taha whānau is wider than the people in your immediate whānau. This includes your relationships with people who you would normally spend regular time with — your extended whānau, hapū and iwi, community groups, sports team, kapa haka, classmates and kura. Staying in touch by phone or video calls, like Zui or Zoom hui, can help to deepen connections and strengthen your taha whānau. Government agencies are working together to provide financial support, related to: How to get financial support Te Puni Kōkiri’s, the Ministry for Māori Development’s, social media channels showcase whānau throughout the motu. Follow them for updates on key Government information and resources. Te Puni Kōkiri on Facebook (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri Instagram (external link) Protect our whakapapa (external link) COVID-19 information is also available in te reo Māori. Te reo Māori resources #Manaaki20 is all about keeping whānau connected and informed, and inspiring whānau by sharing stories of what we’re doing to keep each other healthy, well and connected. #Manaaki20 website (external link) Last modified: 13 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Iwi, hapū and Māori organisations have led decision-making in our communities to support and ensure our whānau are safe and protected from any risk of COVID-19 transmission. This has included adjusting tikanga and cultural practices such as suspending harirū and hongi , kissing and hugging to maintain physical distance, and using tools such as video conferencing to support hui and wānanga. This information is guided by current health advice and is provided to support whānau Māori to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their hapori, hapū and iwi . It is reviewed regularly and may change as we move into different Alert Levels. At Alert Level 2, the number of people allowed at gatherings has been lifted from 10 to 100. This will allow whanau and friends to reconnect at special events such as religious services, funerals and tangihanga. Restrictions are still in place to manage the risk and spread of COVID-19. The general guidance for no physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place — for those who don’t live together and aren’t whānau or close friends. These guidelines were developed to clarify public health measures and support marae to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their whānau, hapū, and iwi under Alert Level 2. We acknowledge that many iwi have already put together Covid-19 Response Plans for their hapū and marae. Mauriora! Bilingual posters for downloading and printing Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. At Alert Level 3, we are keeping tight restrictions on gatherings. Kāua e wareware, it is still quite restrictive. Kia haumaru te noho: stay at home to stop the spread and protect your whānau and kaumātua. The only permitted gatherings are for: Information on funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 All indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. We’re asking you to only spend time with people in your household and keep your distance from all others at all times. This will help us stop the spread of COVID-19 and protect our whānau, hapū and iwi, particularly those who are more vulnerable to illness such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia. Gathering together for tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. At Alert Level 2, you can take care of your environmental/ kaitiaki responsibilities for awa, maunga and ngahere. If you’re working with people in your community, make sure you follow public health measures to keep them safe. Advice on keeping safe while working in your community You can take care of your environmental/ kaitiaki responsibilities for awa, maunga and ngahere, as long as it does not require travel well outside the regional boundary, or into difficult or remote terrain. If this is NGO or paid work activity, maintain physical distancing, handwashing and other public health measures. If this is personal activity, you can only do this with people in your household bubble. Last modified: 29 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. View Episode 5 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View Episode 4 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View Episode 3 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View Episode 2 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View Episode 1 video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Information, updates and advice are available in 9 Pacific languages to help communities unite against COVID-19. Pacific Peoples' guidelines for gatherings [PDF, 144 KB] A Pacific Peoples bulletin with the latest updates, information and resources from the past 24 hours. Pacific Peoples daily bulletin (external link) Information and advice is available in 10 Pacific Languages to support you, your children and young people learning from home. Learning from home (external link) Cabinet has agreed that $17 million will be allocated to support a COVID-19 Pacific response package. COVID-19 Pacific response package (external link) LeVa #CatchYourself is a suite of practical resources and information. It explains how to manage frustration or anger and maintain respectful relationships while staying at home during COVID-19 lockdown. #CatchYourself (external link) COVID-19 WhatsApp channel available in Tongan, Samoan, Fijian and Cook Islands Māori. Join the WhatsApp channel (external link) Pacific Business Trust is providing free practical business assistance for all Pacific organisations in New Zealand who have been impacted by COVID-19. Find out more about free business assistance (external link) Pasifika Futures are referring Pacific families who need to access a COVID-19 support package to their local Civil Defence or a supporting agency. Call your local provider to see if you are eligible for support (external link) Last modified: 22 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: Gatherings cannot go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and it will also impact a number of other religious practices. Religious buildings can open at Alert Level 2. Up to 100 people can gather in each defined space for religious ceremonies, events and services. A defined space is an area that is partitioned off from other areas by permanent or temporary walls. Faith-based institutions and clubs can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each area. You will need to prevent mingling between groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. Read more about defined spaces at Alert Level 2 Gatherings should: Religious and faith-based gatherings should follow social gathering rules, unless they are operating under a club licence to sell alcohol. Then they should follow hospitality rules. You shouldn’t participate in any gatherings if you have COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. You should follow the general guidance for gatherings, including measures such as frequent cleaning, good hygiene and physical distancing. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam, and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they’re visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must adhere to the visiting policy of the health facility and follow the relevant infection prevention and control procedures. The Alert Level 4 rules for gatherings and events still apply under Alert Level 3, with limited exceptions. Weddings, funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. See more information on gatherings and events As with Alert Level 4, many places of worship are using a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, Imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures.  At Alert Level 4, all religious gatherings and events cannot proceed. Many places of worship are catering for communities using a variety of online methods. More information on gatherings and events People who would normally perform a religious role at funerals and tangihanga, such as priests, cannot perform funerals in person during Alert Level 4. They are not on the list of essential services for Alert Level 4, and therefore should be staying at home. E-funerals are a way that religious leaders can continue to provide their services to grieving families during this difficult time. Bereaved families will find this especially difficult, but it is important that as few people as possible travel and interact with other people so we can eradicate COVID-19. Read more information on funerals and tangihanga Advice about paid, volunteer and charity workers and how they can be managed Looking after your community group Mosques and other faith-based venues must remain closed during Alert Levels 3 and 4, although at Alert Level 3 mosque workers may go into the mosque to work, for example, to conduct an online service. You and your bubble can come together to mark religious events such as Ramadan. At Alert Level 3, you can expand your bubble to include close family and caregivers, or to support isolated people. However, you must keep your bubble small and exclusive at all times. You are encouraged to hold iftar (breaking the fast at sunset) and isha (the last prayers of the day) within your bubble. If Eid (the end of Ramadan) occurs during Alert Level 3, you must remain in your household bubble. Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. Customers cannot enter the premises. Meat should either be collected outside the store, or delivered direct to the home. If the dying person is in a hospital or other health facility, the Imam or religious person may visit to perform the rites of passage and practical tasks around that person’s death, but they will need to adhere to the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Different rules apply at Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 4. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 4 (external link) At Alert Level 3, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend the funeral. We have information sheets for Muslim communities available in different languages: Last modified: 27 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Logo: Unite against COVID-19 | Te tohu: Mā tātau katoa e ārai atu te COVID-19 [JPG, 75 KB] Level 4: Your stay at home plan | Taumata 4: Tō mahere noho kāinga [PDF, 1.5 MB] Last modified: 26 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Call 111 immediately in an emergency. Complete the online report if you believe you: Report a breach online (external link) If you're not sure what help is available, or for advice and general enquiries, you can contact the free government helplines. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available or don’t know who to contact for help, call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 5pm, 7 days a week. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 0800 358 5453 . For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. A free helpline is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: Call: Your local Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group can support you if you do not have any other options available. Contact details for Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) groups If you’re Deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) The Unite against COVID-19 website is managed by the National Crisis Management Centre. You can send feedback about the Unite against COVID-19 website by emailing or sending a letter to us. Please include a link to the webpages that you have feedback about. Email: PIM@ncmc.govt.nz Postal address: Unite against COVID-19 website Public Information Management National Crisis Management Centre c/- Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Level 8 Executive Wing Parliament Buildings Wellington Last modified: 11 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. Find the latest COVID-19 case data and information on how it spreads, symptoms, diagnosis and contact tracing. Simple but effective. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Find the latest COVID-19 case data and information on how it spreads, symptoms, diagnosis and contact tracing. The Ministry of Health is publishing data about the cases of COVID-19 and testing in New Zealand. Symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to a range of other illnesses, such as influenza. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. How the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace people who may have been in contact with a case of COVID-19. Information about COVID-19 testing in New Zealand. Information about test results, getting diagnosed, treatment and criteria for recovering from COVID-19.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Once a case has been identified, the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace people who may have been in contact with the case to see if they have become infected. There are two types of contacts — close contacts and casual contacts. Health services give advice to both of these contact types on what they need to do. On the Ministry of Health website you can find more information about contact tracing, including: Contact tracing for COVID-19 on the Ministry of Health website (external link) How to keep track of where you've been Last modified: 21 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: Having them does not necessarily mean that you have COVID-19. Symptoms include: These symptoms don't necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as cold and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have these symptoms please call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or you can call your doctor immediately. If you're outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Call your doctor before visiting. We don’t yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it's 2 to 10 days. Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. If you feel unwell, you should contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider, or GP. They will help you understand what you need to do next. Some people may need to be tested for COVID-19. Testing is an important part of helping us eliminate COVID-19 in New Zealand. A high number of tests across the country helps us: New Zealand already has high rates of testing and good test capacity, but work is continuing to increase both. We want to make sure that we’re reaching everyone who may be affected by COVID-19. Getting assessed early helps protect those around you and helps New Zealand eliminate COVID-19. If you have cold or flu like symptoms, please call: There's more than one way to test for COVID-19, for example, a nose swab or a sputum test. Whatever form a test takes, it involves collecting a sample from you that's then sent to a lab to be analysed. The results may take some time. Anyone being tested will be told when and how to expect their results. Whether you test positive or negative, you should be notified about your results. You should continue to act as though you have COVID-19 and self-isolate until you're notified of your results. Anyone being tested should follow the advice they're given at the time about what to do next. For a small number of people, you may have symptoms but not be tested. You may be considered a “probable” case. You'll need to self-isolate just as if you had a positive test result. There's no difference in the actions needed by someone who tests positive for COVID-19 and someone who is a probable case. Our health system is set up and ready to support anyone who tests positive for COVID-19. Whenever someone is diagnosed with COVID-19, medical professionals will advise them on what they need to do. For most people this will mean self-isolating at home. Teams also immediately start work to identify and contact anyone that those who have tested positive may have come into close contact with. If you go to get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough into your elbow, cover any sneezes and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. You'll need to follow any instructions you’re given like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. Those testing you will wear protective equipment likes gowns or masks — this is nothing to be worried about, it helps protect them and everyone they are testing. In some areas of the country Community Based Assessment Centres (CBACs) have been set up. These are often separate to regular healthcare centres and may be in temporary facilities. You may be directed to a CBAC by your health professional for testing. It's important you follow all instructions given to you to ensure our healthcare workers at the CBAC stay safe. These testing centres give New Zealand more ability to test and help keep people who might have COVID-19 away from hospitals and other health centres where people may be vulnerable. You can find out more about the exact arrangements for your area by visiting the website of your local district health board. The Ministry of Health is providing a daily update on a range of statistics for New Zealand including the number of tests completed each day and over the previous 7 days. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health is also recording tests by region and by ethnicity within regions. This helps us ensure we have an accurate picture of the spread of COVID-19 and can respond in the best way. It also helps to keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. Testing by region and ethnicity on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Last modified: 18 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. If you have been tested for COVID-19, a healthcare professional will inform you of the result regardless of whether you have tested positive or negative. Whenever someone is diagnosed with COVID-19, medical professionals will advise them on what they need to do. For most people this will mean self-isolating at home. Teams also immediately start work to identify and contact anyone that those who have tested positive may have come into close contact with. Currently, there is no specific treatment for COVID-19, but medical care can treat most of the symptoms. There is currently no vaccine for COVID-19 as it is a new virus. Researchers are in the early stages of developing one. For a person to be recovered from COVID-19, they must meet the following criteria: If a person was hospitalised, it must be at least 10 days since they were discharged from hospital and they must be clear of all symptoms for 48 hours. They also must not have major immunosuppression, for example being within a year of bone marrow transplant or receiving chemotherapy. Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. You can find data on: Data on COVID-19 in New Zealand on the Ministry of Health website (external link) A cluster is a group of 10 or more COVID-19 cases that are linked because the people were in the same place together. Ministry of Health data on significant clusters in New Zealand (external link) The Ministry of Health has published a series of modelling reports which were commissioned to help understand the potential impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. These reports show the importance of the Alert Level 4 lockdown and other government actions in slowing the spread of COVID-19. Read the COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health provides a daily update on a range of statistics for New Zealand including the number of tests completed each day and over the previous 7 days. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health is also recording tests by region and by ethnicity within regions. This gives us an accurate picture of the spread of COVID-19 and how to respond in the best way. It also helps to keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. Testing by region and ethnicity on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Last modified: 28 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. People may get infected by the virus if they touch those surfaces or objects, and then touch their mouth, nose or eyes. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands, and use good cough and sneeze etiquette. Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Simple but effective. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. It keeps the virus off your hands, so you won’t spread it to other people and make them sick too. Staying at home is the best thing we can all do to stop the spread of COVID-19. Kindness is an incredibly powerful way to show we are united against COVID-19. Physical distancing is an important way we can unite against COVID-19. Now is a good time to be extra vigilant with cleaning. Fast and effective contact tracing is essential to stopping any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about 3 days and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, they should be cleaned first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. More information about cleaning surfaces on thespinoff.co.nz website (external link) Last modified: 22 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them getting onto your hands. Put any used tissues in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. If other people touch these surfaces they may get sick. For most people facemasks are not recommended. Facemasks play an important role in clinical settings, such as hospitals. For people with symptoms of an acute respiratory infection, there may be benefit in wearing a facemask to reduce the spread of infection to other people. Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. How the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace people who have been in contact with a case of COVID-19 You can keep track of your movements by: Everyone should keep track of the 3 Ws: You can use any way that suits you and helps you to provide information about your whereabouts if a contact tracer needs to contact you. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Businesses and venues will have their own requirements for collecting information to help with contact tracing. Make sure you follow their processes when visiting different premises. There are many different apps you can use to record your movement. The Ministry of Health has created a tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. How to download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) If you have questions about the app or any problems using it, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 or email tracingapp-feedback@health.govt.nz . Information about privacy and COVID-19 (external link) Businesses operating at Alert Level 2 must record details of people’s movement on their premises. How to collect information for contact tracing Last modified: 21 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: You can make a huge difference by: These kinds of connections and offers of help will go a long way to getting others through COVID-19. ​Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. How to look after your mental health Last modified: 22 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Physical distancing, sometimes known as “social distancing”, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online It’s best not to shake hands, kiss hello or hongi for now. Where you can, keep a bit of space. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa, as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia. In practice, for those who don’t live together and aren’t family/whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū, as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. At Alert Level 2, you can leave home to do more things and reconnect with friends and family. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. What we can do: Try to only socialise with people you know well and keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. If you’re feeling sick or have any symptoms of COVID-19, cold and flu like symptoms, you should stay at home and not socialise with anyone. As a nation we did a great job at Alert Level 4 of staying in our bubble and maintaining physical distancing when we went outside. This is one of the key reasons we were able to move down to Alert Level 3 and we have to keep it up. Outside of your home, you must continue to keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. Workers must maintain physical distance in the workplace. Advice on staying home and self-isolation Outside of your home, or if you're sick, keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. Advice on staying home and self-isolation Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: If you have cold or flu like symptoms you should stay home, and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. These symptoms include: You can find more details about COVID-19 and its symptoms on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19 symptoms (external link) If you have any of these symptoms it doesn’t necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. More information for self-isolating if you’re unwell (external link) Stay home if you’re sick or have been told to self-isolate. If you have any symptoms of COVID-19 such as cold and flu like symptoms, stay home. Call your GP or Healthline immediately to ask about getting tested. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have been told to self-isolate, you must do so immediately. Learn more about staying home at Alert Level 2 Stay home whenever you are not at work, school, exercising or getting supplies. If you can work or learn from home, you should do so. People can extend their bubble to reconnect with close family and whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s okay to leave home to visit your extended bubble members. Learn more about staying home at Alert Level 3 You can leave your house to access essential services, like buying groceries, or going to a bank or pharmacy, or to go for a walk, exercise and enjoy nature. Vulnerable people, in particular, should stay at home and self-isolate. If you’re sick or have COVID-19 symptoms, you must: More information for self-isolating if you’re unwell (external link) Print your stay at home plan [PDF, 1.5 MB] Learn more about staying home at Alert Level 4 Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: Don’t touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: The same goes for hand sanitiser, use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially: Always wash your hands: No, you can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. Cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses — as long as you use soap. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you're outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Looking after your health and wellbeing during COVID-19. Help is available if you're experiencing financial distress. Advice is available on all aspects of domestic and international travel. More advice for renters and homeowners, about waste collection and animal welfare. Advice about shopping during COVID-19. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Guidance to help keep children safe and reassured, and to help manage childcare, shared custody, and education. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to find out your personal circumstances: The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you could access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use COVID-19 financial support tool If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: Financial support, eligibility criteria, and how to apply (external link) Work and Income call centres are experiencing very high demand at the moment, so we recommend you check its website first.  If you don’t have access to the internet you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. A range of options is available to help. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with offers tips, guides and tools support online or you can email it at office@sorted.org.nz . Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) Follow Sorted on Facebook (external link) View helpful videos on the Sorted YouTube channel (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz . Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills due to COVID-19, talk to your retailer about other options, such as a moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship, or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) The COVID-19 Income Relief Payment is another option for people who have recently lost their jobs. You may be eligible if you lost your job (including self-employment) from 1 March 2020 to 30 October 2020, due to the impacts of COVID-19. You can get up to 12 weeks of payments to help with living costs and give you time to look for other work. It offers: You can apply for the payment from 8 June 2020. More information and how to apply (external link) The Keep New Zealand Working online recruitment tool connects job seekers directly to the employer making it quicker and easier for people to find work. The tool also provides online training courses. Work and Income’s online Recruitment Tool (external link) If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Help could include a 6-month freeze on residential rent increases and increased protection from having your tenancy ended. It's important tenants don't face the prospect of homelessness during this challenging time. This will also enable families and individuals to self-isolate, to stay home and maintain physical distancing, and support everyone’s public health. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Development has more information (external link) New Zealand’s retail banks are offering to defer repayments for all residential mortgages for up to 6 months for customers financially affected by COVID-19. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you will not need to make principal and interest payments on your loan for up to 6 months. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. It's important to know that interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess the suitability for each customer who is asking for a deferral. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. Māori communities and businesses can access help tailored to meet the specific needs of Māori in the face of COVID-19. These include: Read the Government’s media release on beehive.govt.nz (external link) Welfare information about health and wellbeing, financial support, accommodation support, schools and early childhood, animal welfare, information for international visitors. Last modified: 11 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Looking after your health and wellbeing during COVID-19. Advice on all aspects of healthcare, whether or not you have COVID-19. Advice on how to look after your emotional and mental wellbeing. Suggestions and ideas about how you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. Advice about the influenza vaccine. Advice about staying at home and self-isolating. If you're unwell, it's vital you stay home and recover. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Guidelines for people at higher risk of COVID-19. Advice about what to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL) Easy Read These guidelines will continue to be updated it as more evidence becomes available. You should work with your GP or specialist if you need help understanding your own level of risk and how best to stay healthy. People with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and some older people are at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19. At all Alert Levels, when you leave the house you need to main physical distance and good hygiene practices. At Alert Level 2, there is more freedom to move around and reconnect with close family, whānau and friends. If you are an at-risk person, you’ll need to take extra precautions when doing this. Things you can do to stay safe: There is more detailed guidance available for people who are at higher risk of COVID-19 at Alert Level 2. This guidance includes advice on shopping, work, socialising, travel and recreation: Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 69 KB] Underlying medical conditions include: Many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including: Older people, in particular those who have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Aged care facilities are susceptible to the rapid transmission of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. Pregnant women in their third trimester should take extra precautions and keep themselves well at a time when the growing baby means higher oxygen demands on the mother. Pregnant women working in areas where there is high risk of exposure to COVID-19, for example some healthcare settings, should discuss and agree with their employer an assessment of the risk and options for working differently if needed. If you can't safely work at your workplace, and can't work from home, you need to agree what your leave from work and pay arrangements will be with your employer. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) There is more detailed guidance for people who are at higher risk of severe illness should they contract COVID-19. This includes people who are aged 70 and over and/or have certain existing health conditions, which may put them at risk of severe illness should they contract COVID-19. Find out the list of health conditions and the guidance on how you can live your life as normally as possible, including work and enjoying safe activities, without compromising your health and wellbeing at Alert Level 3. Essential in-home care is permitted at Alert Level 3, but services will be modified to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your general practitioner if you need further help understanding your own level of risk. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] Last modified: 15 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL) Easy Read At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you’re sick, stay home. When exercising in public, keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know if possible. You can do activities that were restricted previously, including: Community sports are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. A sports field can have multiple defined spaces by keeping: Groups should be prevented from intermingling or sharing common facilities at the same time. For example, a game of rugby can occur so long as there are no more than 100 people on the field. If that field has a stand on either side, up to 100 people can gather in each stand if they are kept separate from those from the other stand and from players and umpires on the field. Organisers and the person in control of the premises are responsible for collecting contact tracing information. More information on gatherings, events, and defined spaces Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link) Exercise and recreation is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, there's a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others, touch common equipment or surfaces, or need rescuing or medical care. We need to keep doing our bit so that our gains in Alert Level 4 aren’t compromised. You can do activities that are local, safe, and don't involve interaction with other people outside your bubble. The most important thing is to stay safe. Do low-risk activities, so you don’t need rescuing or medical care. You should also keep a 2 metre distance from people who aren’t in your bubble. You can do more activities at Alert Level 3 but only if you’re experienced and do them safely. These include: Boating, yachting and any team sports or training are not allowed. Now isn't the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. Stick to your local area. For example, go to your nearest beach or park, not your favourite one. Staying overnight at a bach or holiday home isn't permitted. You should drive as short a distance as you can and still do the activity. If you live on a regional boundary, this might mean travelling to a neighbouring region. This is fine as long as it’s still local and a close distance from your home. Find detailed information about sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) Stick to simple outdoor exercise, and avoid activities where you can get injured or lost. For example, don’t go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. It’s important the emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Walks and other activities like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your household. Don’t use services like share-bikes or hire scooters. Whenever you're out and about be extremely careful of “high touch items” like handrails, gates and park benches. Avoid touching these and if you can’t avoid it, wash or sanitise your hands before touching your face or eating. Make sure you: Thoroughly wash your hands when you return home. Stay close to home. Enjoy your neighbourhood, but go no further. For example, if you live near a beach, you may go for a walk down to the waterfront. But don’t drive to another suburb to go to the beach. If you have a dog, try walking it around the block instead of driving with it to a park. You can walk to a local park but you need to keep your distance from others who may also be there. “Local” means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. City dwellers may have a supermarket, pharmacy or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to drive further. If you do leave your house, you must always keep a 2 metre distance from other people who are not part of your household. If an area is too crowded to keep to a 2 metre space between you and others, go home. Don’t stop and chat, smile and wave instead. You can do outdoor activities with your household in your backyard, like backyard soccer or cricket. Be careful your ball doesn’t go into the neighbour’s house as they won’t be able to touch it or return it. Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL) Easy Read The Government and the Police continue to take family violence and sexual violence very seriously. Violence is a crime at any time. Family violence and sexual violence services are essential services and will remain available, even if services need to be delivered in different ways. It is okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the Police on 111 , even if you’re not sure. Stay as connected as you can, and keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check-in with each other. If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines continue to be available for people needing help: Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Find out where sexual violence support services in your area (external link) Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe To Talk (external link) Visit Victim Support's website to find out how they can support victims during COVID-19 (external link) Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Find out more about Women's Refuge (external link) Find out more about Shine's helpline (external link) Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe To Talk (external link) Find out more about Rape Crisis Centres (external link) Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe To Talk (external link) Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Find out more about Stop (external link) Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Find out more about Skylight (external link) Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) Find out more about OUTline (external link) Find out more about You, me, us (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: The information on this page is also available in other languages: If someone in your whānau dies: If the person has died from: Your local funeral director can give you initial information and guidance. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. For tangihanga, you can contact your iwi or hapū for support. Find translations of the funeral guidelines for Pacific Peoples You might not be able to say goodbye to a loved one, in the way you are used to, and this could be very challenging. Read through the basic advice on mental wellbeing and call or text 1737 . Talk with a trained counsellor, for free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Looking after your mental wellbeing Up to 100 people can attend a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 2. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: Organisers are no longer required to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. The organiser must ensure that contact tracing requirements are met, except if everyone knows each other. The general guidance for no physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place –  for those who don’t live together and aren’t whānau or close friends. More information about gatherings and events Ministry of Health guidance deaths, funerals and tangihanga (external link) Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals and tangihanga are acceptable gatherings at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. They must take place at a funeral home. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga you should still keep 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, for example, those with underlying medical conditions, should avoid gatherings. No food or drink should be consumed at any gathering, including funerals and tangi. More about funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 (external link) You can travel between regions to attend a funeral or tangihanga. However no more than 10 people can attend a funeral or tangi, so you need to confirm that you are among those 10 people before travelling. You do not need documentation to travel. If you are questioned, you should explain that you are going to a funeral or tangihanga. Where possible show any available documentation you have, for example, a notice of service from the funeral home. To stop the spread of COVID-19, gathering for funerals and tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. This means: Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. Only people from the same self-isolation bubble as the deceased person can go to the funeral home and cemetery with the deceased, and only if these are in the same region. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to keep your physical distance. This applies to all deceased persons, regardless of when and where they died, or the cause of death. It includes gatherings at burials, cremations, memorial services, open or closed caskets or viewings, funeral wakes, processions or receptions and social gatherings, both indoors and outdoors. Guidelines for tangihanga at Alert Level 4 (external link) Funeral guidelines for Pacific Peoples at Alert Level 4 [PDF, 123 KB] We must protect people’s health and ensure our health system can look after all people in New Zealand who become sick. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. Funeral directors provide essential services and will continue working during Alert Level 4. They will be able to guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include: People who would normally perform a religious role at funerals and tangihanga, such as priests, cannot perform funerals in person during Alert Level 4. They are not on the list of essential services for Alert Level 4, and therefore should be staying at home. Online funerals are a way that religious leaders can continue to provide their services to grieving families during this difficult time. Bereaved families will find this especially difficult, but it is important that as few people as possible travel and interact with other people so we can eradicate COVID-19. Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and Audio If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111, or go straight to hospital. If you're concerned about any aspect of your health, contact your GP. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it's important that you have the treatments and medications you need. You should not delay seeking help for any health needs. If you think you’ve been exposed to COVID-19 through contact with someone who has it, it’s important to let your family doctor know when you call. COVID-19 symptoms If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 08 00 358 5453 . For any other health concerns, call your doctor or the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and postnatally. COVID-19 Welfare Advice includes information about seeking medical advice [MP3, 4.4 MB] Please only call Healthline or your doctor if you need medical assistance. If your call isn't about a medical issue, try to find answers to your questions on this website. At Alert Level 2 general practices, community health, and addiction services are open. These services are provided in ways that keep everyone safe, which means appointments are mainly online or by telephone. Hospitals are open for all emergency care, but outpatient appointments are mainly online or by telephone. Numbers of visitors are limited and if you’re allowed to visit these facilities, they’ll record your contact details. Facilities must follow hygiene and distancing practices. Mental health and addiction in-patient and residential services are open. Allied health providers such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists can open but they must have safety measures such as screens, personal protective equipment and contact tracing practices. Staying healthy is important so you should continue to seek primary healthcare during Alert Levels 3 and 4. During Alert Levels 3 and 4, medical centres, pharmacies and hospitals are still open. You can access all the treatments, vaccinations and medicines that you need to stay well, whether or not you have COVID-19. If you're concerned about any aspect of your health, call your GP. Your doctor may offer you a consultation by text, email, phone or video. This is to stop person-to-person contact. If, however, your doctor feels you need a consultation in person, they will organise this for you. You're allowed to travel during Alert Levels 3 and 4 to access medical support. You can drive to a medical centre or hospital. Just call first so you know what to do when you get there. For example, you may be asked to use a particular entrance, or to wait outside in your car until you're called. If you're sick you should avoid public transport when travelling to a medical appointment. Essential in-home care for those with disabilities or health conditions is permitted. Services will be modified to reduce the risks of COVID-19. If you think that you need to get tested for COVID-19 you should contact your doctor or Healthline immediately. Elective surgeries and procedures are done at Alert Level 2. However, there may be limited capacity and delays. Contact your doctor to discuss your ongoing care. If you’re pregnant the way you receive medical care may be affected. Your post-natal care may also be different. During your pregnancy, you may have fewer face-to-face check-ups. Your midwife will still contact you over the phone or by video call. When you give birth, maternity facilities may limit the number of visitors and support people you can have with you. If you have been diagnosed with COVID-19, inform your midwife or midwifery practice. Guidance for pregnant women and those who have recently given birth (external link) Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part of the fight against COVID-19 and will help us reduce the pressure on our hospitals. For more information on the 2020 flu campaign, and to see if you’re eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu website (external link) Pharmacies are an essential service and are open at all Alert Levels. Pharmacies will only dispense 1 month of each prescription to make sure there's enough medication for everyone. If you’re at risk of severe illness from COVID-19 you may want to ask someone to pick up your medicines on your behalf. There are some restrictions on who can visit hospital and hospice patients, when they can visit and for how long. You should contact the facility directly to understand their visiting policy. It’s important that anyone with symptoms of COVID-19 contact Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or their doctor immediately. District Health Boards will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. You should seek medical advice if you're unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. Priests, Imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence at Alert Level 2. If the person who is dying is in a health facility, they should work with the facility to make sure they adhere with the visiting policy and the relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Are you or your whānau unwell? The best ways to get support are to: The Ministry of Health regularly updates its webpage with detailed health advice (external link) Last modified: 28 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL) Easy Read To look after our community and make sure our health system is there for those who need it most, we all need to look after our vulnerable populations. One way to do this is to make sure those most at risk of influenza, get immunised first. Get vaccinated against influenza early if you are one of these priority groups: Full list of eligible health conditions (external link) More information about influenza vaccinations (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print Audio ​Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It's normal to feel anxious or stressed about COVID-19, or you may feel lonely when you're self-isolating. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. While there are things that we can’t control now, there are things we can do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of your loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other to get through this. While we are limiting social contact to contain the spread of COVID-19, there are still lots of ways we can connect. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared in the current situation. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, have regular e-meetings with colleagues or virtual coffee dates with friends and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling alone or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your media intake. Get the facts from this website to help distinguish facts from rumours. Seek information updates at specific times once or twice a day. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Notice if your symptoms are getting worse. Talk to your GP, counsellor, caseworker or mental health team about how they can continue supporting you. Community mental health service appointments will be online or by phone where possible, however there may be some face-to-face urgent appointments, so long as professionals can take appropriate measures to manage public health risks. Listen to the tips from your treatment provider to help you get through. You may also want to consider who you can call if you need urgent help. Reach out to your usual supports such as whānau, friends and workmates. If it's not possible to meet in person, then connect by phone, web chat or email. Sharing how we feel and offering support to others is important. If you feel you're not coping, it's important to talk with a health professional. For support with grief, anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Tell yourself that how you are feeling is a normal reaction and will pass and that it's nothing to be afraid of. We’re all in this together, and even if we can't be physically in touch for whatever reason, it’s important to stay connected in other ways. New Zealand is known for its manaakitanga and now more than ever we need to remember the power of kindness and uniting together. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available, or you don’t know who to contact for help, call the Government Helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 10pm, 7 days a week. Free apps, toolkits, and other digital resources are available to help New Zealanders look after their mental wellbeing. You can find tips and advice on how to cope with the stress of COVID-19 in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury DHB and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources can help you get through, stay connected, and support your wellbeing. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by All Blacks legend and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark, and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to connect and support each other, and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) This online course teaches practical strategies to cope with the stress and disruption to everyday life from COVID-19. Staying on Track (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL) Easy Read Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If you have COVID-19, or if you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. Everybody you live with must stay at home. If somebody you live with develops symptoms of COVID-19 like a cough, fever, shortness of breath, sneezing or a runny nose, they should call their regular doctor. If they don't have a regular doctor they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re unwell, you should not be sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you’re feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can be opened. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible and keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. Clean surfaces with disinfectant after you use them. Try to avoid touching them after you have cleaned them. This includes areas like kitchen benches and sink tops. If you use a shared toilet and bathroom, it’s important that you clean them after you have used them every time. For example, wiping surfaces you have come into contact with. It's a good idea to be the last to use the shower/bath in the morning or evening to make this easier on those you live with. You should use your own roll of toilet paper, hand towels, toothpaste and other supplies during your illness. If you share a kitchen with others, avoid using it while others are present. Take your meals back to your room to eat. It may be easier for someone else in your household to prepare your food and you avoid the kitchen area. If you have a dishwasher use it to clean and dry your used crockery and cutlery. If this isn't possible, wash them using your usual washing up liquid and warm water and dry them thoroughly, remembering to use a separate tea towel. We understand that it will be difficult for some people to separate themselves from others at home. You should do your very best to follow this guidance and everyone in your household should regularly wash their hands, avoid touching their face and clean frequently touched surfaces. Don’t share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, you should wash them thoroughly with soap and water, place them in the dishwasher for cleaning, or wash them in the sink. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Don't share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but you should not prepare food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate to others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house, both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for hand-hygiene purposes. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. Breastfeeding is always important, but especially in times of emergency. Breastfeeding provides immunological protections to the breastfed child. Most often, babies who are breastfed remain healthy even when their parents or other family members are unwell with an infectious illness. Considering the benefits of breastfeeding, and how seldom breastmilk transmits respiratory viruses, you can continue breastfeeding while applying all necessary precautions: If you have become infected with COVID-19 shortly before giving birth, or if you have symptoms suggestive of COVID-19 and are waiting for test results, your midwife and the doctors caring for you will advise you about the potential for your baby to develop COVID-19 through close contact. There's no evidence that COVID-19 is transmitted through breastmilk, so you can still choose to breastfeed while taking some additional specific precautions. To reduce the spread of COVID-19 while breastfeeding: If you're too unwell to breastfeed, you should express your milk and give it to your baby via a bottle — all while following the same infection prevention methods. If you become unwell in the days or weeks after giving birth and you're breastfeeding your baby, it's important not to interrupt breastfeeding. Your baby will already have been exposed to the virus and will benefit from continued breastfeeding. Your baby will also be considered a close contact of a confirmed case and you'll be provided advice about this from your Public Health Unit. While you're unwell, don’t invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who isn't a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. You should not have visitors to your home, but it's okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. You should also avoid visiting others if you're unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. You should do your own laundry. Dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person can be washed with other people’s items. Don't shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide a supply of laundry items to you. If you don't have a washing machine, wait until you’ve recovered and the isolation period has ended before taking your laundry to a laundrette. If you have read through these self-isolation guidelines and believe you have observed behaviour that isn't appropriate and you are certain the individuals concerned should be self-isolating complete the Police online report. Police online reporting form (external link) Last modified: 13 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print Animated videos More detailed guidance has been developed for people who are at higher risk of severe illness should they contract COVID-19, including people who are aged 70 and over or have certain existing health conditions. Find out about the list of health conditions and the guidance on how you can live your life as normally as possible, including work and enjoying safe activities, without compromising your health and wellbeing. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 [PDF, 609 KB] Allocate another person in your household to pick up supplies. If you live alone, ask friends or family and whānau to drop off anything you need — including food and medicine or other essential supplies — or you can order online and request a home delivery. Make sure any deliveries are left outside your home for you to collect. No one should come inside. If your friends or family deliver supplies to you, ask them to let you know when they have dropped it off, and they can remain nearby to ensure you have received it. If you are unwell, it's vital you stay home and recover. Advice on how to self-isolate if you have COVID-19 symptoms or if you are told to do so Physical activity is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. Make sure you follow guidelines to stay safe because the more contact we have with others, the higher the risk of transmission if a person has symptoms of COVID-19. It's very important to stay safe and to stay physically distant from people you do not know. Advice on recreation and exercising safely If there's another emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines. Earthquakes, floods, landslides, snow, storms, tsunami, volcanic activity and other hazards can happen any time and often without warning. If authorities tell you to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow their evacuation advice. What to do in an emergency at any COVID-19 Alert Level More information on how to get prepared for an emergency (external link)  At Alert Level 2 you can leave home, but play it safe. If you leave your house, keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know in public and in retail stores. In other places, like at work, keep 1 metre distance where practicable. What you can do to stay safe and well: Guidance on physical distancing at Alert Level 2 Information about gatherings and events at Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 means you must stay at home other than for essential personal movement, such as buying groceries, exercising, seeing the doctor or going to work or school. However, you can now slightly extend your household bubble to include people such as close family members, caregivers or someone who needs care. Keep your extended bubble local, small and exclusive. If you do leave your house, you must keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times. Even in a controlled environment such as a workplace, you need to maintain physical distance. At Alert Level 3, you should still take measures to stay safe and well: Everyone in New Zealand will have access to essential services throughout Alert Level 3. How to shop safely Help accessing essential goods If you have COVID-19, or you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. As soon as you feel unwell, you should immediately self-isolate from others in your household bubble. You can talk to your employer about sick leave if you have any concerns about taking time off. If you have COVID-19 symptoms you should either call your GP straight away, or contact Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell You need to limit contact with people outside your household bubble to reduce the risk of transmission. You can have a quick chat with neighbours if you're 2 metres apart, however, you should avoid congregating with other people. If you want to speak to someone who isn't a member of your household use the phone, video calls, messaging apps or other means of contact to check in and stay in touch. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. They need to leave these at the door and avoid contact with all household members. Not meeting up with others is about physical separation, but not social separation. Keep in touch with your wider group of friends, family and whānau over the phone or online. Consider setting up a regular time to chat to check in and keep in touch. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events such as COVID-19. Parents, caregivers and whānau will have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. More information for parents and caregivers Alert Level 3 is still about stopping movement and breaking the chain. Unfortunately, having close contact with anyone outside your current or slightly extended household bubble presents some risk. There are some small exemptions to who may be able to have different bubble arrangements. Support available for family or sexual violence The Government is providing assistance to find suitable accommodation for people to stay in. This service is available to those who are unable to stay in their own homes, or are travellers visiting New Zealand and don't already have suitable accommodation arranged. There's a cost for temporary accommodation. The Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. Temporary accommodation service (external link) Alert Level 4 means you can only have in-person contact with the people in your household bubble. You cannot have contact with any other people outside your household bubble. If you have a confirmed COVID-19 case or symptoms, are a close contact of a case or have recently travelled overseas, refer to the specific guidance for those groups – you should be self-isolating. You should minimise trips outside your home, and stay at home as much as possible. As long as you're not unwell or have not recently returned from overseas, you can leave your house to: If you do leave your house, you must keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times. Police will be monitoring people and asking questions of people who are out and about during the Alert Level 4 lockdown to check what they are doing. Everyone in New Zealand will have access to essential services throughout Alert Level 4. How to shop safely Help accessing essential goods If you have COVID-19, or you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell You cannot meet up with people outside your household bubble. Don't meet up with friends, family and whānau, or allow them to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who isn't a member of your household use the phone, video calls, messaging apps or other means of contact to check in and stay in touch. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. They need to leave these at the door and avoid contact with all household members. Not meeting up with others is about physical separation, but not social separation. Keep in touch with your wider group of friends, family and whānau over the phone or online. Consider setting up a regular time to chat to check in and keep in touch. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events such as COVID-19. Parents, caregivers and whānau will have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. More information for parents and caregivers Alert Level 4 is about stopping movement and breaking the chain. Unfortunately, having close contact with anyone outside your household presents some risk. There are some small exemptions to who may be able to have different bubble arrangements: Take common-sense precautions to limit close contact with those you live with. Everybody you live with will also be staying at home, unless they work for an essential service. What to do if somebody you live with becomes unwell while self-isolating The Government is providing assistance to find suitable accommodation for people to stay in. This service is available to those who are unable to stay in their own homes, or are travellers visiting New Zealand and don't already have suitable accommodation arranged. There's a cost for temporary accommodation. The Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. Temporary accommodation service (external link) Essential workers must stay within their household bubble when they are not at work. Essential workers must maintain a high level of hygiene to keep others in their household safe, including washing their hands, clothes and surfaces regularly, especially after returning from work. Their workplace will also be required to put appropriate safety measures in place to ensure these people are safe at work. Most essential workers will not require personal protective equipment (PPE). As always, anyone who is unwell should not be at work. You must stay at home if: You may also wish to stay at home if: The Government will make sure essential workers who take leave from work to comply with public health guidance will still receive income. The leave scheme for essential workers helps businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19. Guidance for essential workers and essential businesses (external link) More NZSL videos relating to this page More Easy Read information relating to this page Last modified: 15 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. More advice for renters and homeowners, about waste collection and animal welfare. Information about collection of household waste. Information about animal welfare and accessing veterinary services. Information such as rent increase freezes, having your tenancy ended, moving houses, and maintenance guidance. Information such as mortgage payment deferrals, moving house, home maintenance, and buying or selling a property.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: If you’re concerned about an animal’s welfare call the Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) on 0800 008 333 . If your animals need treatment, contact your own veterinary clinic. If you don't have a regular veterinarian, or yours isn't open, you can find nearby clinics on Find-a-Vet. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) NZ Veterinary Association information including how to manage animals when in self-isolation (external link) If you're self-isolating, you must contact your veterinarian before visiting them or they visit you including for production animals. This applies even if your animal is being presented by someone else. There remains no evidence that domestic animals, pets or livestock can spread COVID-19 and routine testing of animals for COVID-19 isn't justified. However, it’s good practice to wash your hands before and after interacting with animals. International advice is that, as a precautionary measure, people sick with COVID-19 should avoid contact with pets and other animals, as they would with people. Where there's COVID-19 in a household, it's recommended that animals are not moved off the property. Travel is allowed for essential personal movement in your area, including for accessing local services and businesses. When travelling to deliver an animal, such as a puppy, you'll need to ensure that safe practices are implemented. For example, ensuring a safe distance between all people involved in transporting and receiving the animal, and practicing good hygiene practices, such as hand washing. You cannot travel to another region to personally deliver an animal as part of a sale or adoption, as this isn't essential travel. However, transporting the animal as freight with a commercial pet transport company is available. This will likely be via land transport. Check with commercial providers. There are no formal restrictions on the import of cats and dogs into New Zealand at present. However, international flight availability for the carriage of live animals is severely limited. In addition, it will be difficult for you to pick up your pet from the airport or the quarantine facility unless you live in the area because of travel restrictions. You should contact a pet transporter to check whether your pet can be transported both to New Zealand and within New Zealand. Any travel plans within New Zealand will need to follow the general travel guidance under current alert levels. If the quarantine facility where your animal is being held isn't in your local area, you should contact a pet transporter to check whether your pet can be transported to your hometown in New Zealand. Travel to care for your animals, including horses, is allowed. This includes providing your animals with food, water, exercise, and any other aspect that you need to provide to meet your responsibilities under the Animal Welfare Act and relevant codes of welfare. If your animals are in another region that's not in your local area, try to get someone else you trust to provide care if possible. If your horses are in other people’s care, such as at a stable or graziers, in your local area then you can visit them, with certain guidelines. If your horses are in other people’s care, and are not in your region, then you should avoid visiting them as they have care, and visiting them would not be classed as essential work. Whenever you visit or exercise your horses, make sure that you maintain hygiene measures and physical distancing. A roster system for horse owners to visit the facility may be one measure that could be implemented to meet this requirement and to ensure contact tracing is easily achievable. The facility must record everyone that is working there, and every visitor and contractor who enters. Limit visits to what is necessary. Under Alert Level 3, farming and other primary sector businesses and support services can operate, as long as they can do so safely. Further information on farming (external link) Animal and pet care service businesses can operate at Alert Level 3 if they can meet safe practice requirements and can operate without physical contact with customers. Only workers are allowed on business premises. Advice for businesses operating at Alert Level 3 — WorkSafe (external link) Last modified: 1 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand’s retail banks are offering to defer repayments for all residential mortgages for up to 6 months for customers financially affected by COVID-19. Mortgage repayment deferrals mean that affected customers who apply to their bank will not make principal and interest payments on their loans for up to 6 months. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to provide assistance to affected customers. Key details of this scheme: At Alert Level 3 you can move house, but only if it's a long-term move that needs to happen now. You can move between regions if required, and moving companies are allowed to operate, with public health measures in place. If you do move, you must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, you should sign tenancy agreements digitally, and should move house without any contact with other people. Find more Alert Level 3 guidance on the Tenancy Services website (external link) You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Find more information on the Building Performance website (external link) As with Alert Level 4, tradespeople and other workers don't need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but they should maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like handwashing and wiping surfaces down. While you can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3 it's recommended that settlement is delayed until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or less. Guidance on property settlements from the Ministry of Justice (external link) You can look for properties to buy, but it should be done without face-to-face contact with real estate agents, owners or existing tenants. At Alert Level 3 you can move house, but only if it's a long-term move that needs to happen now. You can move between regions if required, and moving companies are allowed to operate, with public health measures in place. Many New Zealanders in the process of buying and selling a house will be affected by the response to COVID-19. For example, the requirements of Alert Level 4 mean that people can’t move into or out of their houses. If you have sold or purchased a property, and settlement was due to occur during Alert Level 4, we encourage you to contact the other party and come to an agreement. The Ministry of Justice, in consultation with Land Information New Zealand, the New Zealand Law Society | Te Kāhui Ture o Aotearoa and the Real Estate Authority, has prepared guidance for people and their lawyers dealing with property settlements affected by the response to COVID-19. This information should help you to find the best solution for your situation. For any new sale and purchase agreements, we recommend that lawyers insert a clause into the agreement to delay settlement until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or less. Guidance from the Ministry of Justice (external link) You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do urgent maintenance. The work must be essential to maintaining the necessities of life, or critical to safety. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Find more information on the Building Performance website (external link) Tradespeople and other workers don't need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house. Information sheet for more information about staying safe while having essential work done [PDF, 28 KB] Last modified: 26 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: It's important that tenants don't face the prospect of homelessness. This will also help families and individuals to: As of Thursday 26 March, there is a 6-month freeze on rent increases. This means that landlords can’t increase rent for their rental properties. If the landlord issued notice to increase the rent before Thursday 26 March, but the increase is not yet in place, the notice has no effect and the rent remains at the original level. Read more details on the Tenancy Services website (external link) Landlords cannot end tenancies during the COVID-19 response. This applies for an initial period of 3 months, from Thursday 26 March 2020, regardless of when the notice was provided, except for some very limited circumstances. Tenants that have previously received notices to end their tenancies can stay in their rental properties if they wish. Read more details on the Tenancy Services website (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can move house, but only if it's a long-term move that needs to happen now. You can move between regions if required, and moving companies are allowed to operate, with public health measures in place. If you do move, you must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, you should sign tenancy agreements digitally, and should move house without any contact with other people. Find more Alert Level 3 guidance on the Tenancy Services website (external link) You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Find more information on the Building Performance website (external link) As with Alert Level 4, tradespeople and other workers don't need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but they should maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like handwashing and wiping surfaces down. If you're a tenant, you must remain where you stayed on the night of 25 March 2020. You must only move house under extreme circumstances, for example, if you would otherwise have nowhere else to live. If you do have to move, you must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 4 rules. For example, you should sign tenancy agreements digitally, and should move house without any contact with other people. You cannot hire a removal service. If you gave notice to your landlord to end your tenancy prior to 25 March 2020, this can be withdrawn. If your landlord gave notice to you to end your tenancy, that notice is no longer valid, unless you both agree otherwise, and your current tenancy agreement can continue. If you had signed a new periodic tenancy agreement before the lockdown, you can give 21 days’ notice to the new landlord. You may have to pay double rent for the period. If you had signed a new fixed-term tenancy agreement, you should try to arrange with your new landlord to cancel this. Landlords are being encouraged to be flexible and accommodating and to support their tenants at this time. However, if you can’t come to an agreement with your landlord, the Tenancy Tribunal can help to resolve any issues. Contact the Tenancy Tribunal (external link) You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do urgent maintenance. The work must be essential to maintaining the necessities of life, or critical to safety. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Find more information on the Building Performance website (external link) Tradespeople and other workers don't need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house. Information sheet for more information about staying safe while having essential work done [PDF, 28 KB] Last modified: 26 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Please check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) Helpful tips and detailed information on household rubbish and recycling during the COVID-19 response and recovery (external link) You must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, you should still put all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. Please do not flush wet wipes down the toilet, as they can cause a breakdown of our wastewater and sewerage system. Instead, put them into your household rubbish. Waste handling and kerbside collection workers are providing an essential service. They will get the appropriate protection equipment from their employers to ensure their personal safety. Please do not approach workers engaged in waste handling or collection services. Information about personal protective equipment for essential workers (external link) Many districts are returning to normal services under Alert Level 2, however some may not until Alert Level 1. Please check your local council or private collector website and social media platform regularly for updates on recycling arrangements and kerbside collection dates in your area. Municipal landfills and most waste transfer stations will be open for essential services use only. Some waste transfer stations may allow limited access to the public. Please check your local council website for more information before visiting. Please check council websites for public recycling facility arrangements in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) While you are free to undertake gardening or other waste-generating activity at home during the Alert Level 3 and 4 period, keep any waste on-site until the Alert Level 3 and 4 period has ended. Last modified: 13 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong, get gone”. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance. If your life or property is threatened, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. Last modified: 24 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Scams and frauds exploiting the spread of COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: COVID-19 Investment scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) COVID-19 Phishing and cyber scams: CERT (external link) General COVID-19 Scam information: CFFC (external link) Netsafe website (external link) Scamwatch: Consumer protection website (external link) It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices, however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) Hand sanitiser is good for cleaning your hands if soap and water are not available. Make sure you use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. There have been reports of sanitisers being sold that have less than 60% alcohol. These are not as effective. How to wash your hands properly Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Guidance to help keep children safe and reassured, and to help manage childcare, shared custody, and education. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on managing shared custody, childcare and childcare providers. The internet helps us connect with people but there are also risks. Find out how to stay safe online.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Where possible, essential workers need to make their own arrangements for childcare, due to limited capacity. We know this will not be possible for everyone. Alternative arrangements have been made so essential workers can access childcare and continue to work. Your employer will tell you if you qualify as an essential worker for these purposes. Making your own arrangements for childcare is the preferred approach. We encourage you to use your existing networks for in-home care, for example, a neighbour, relative, friend or current carer/nanny who can come to your house or provide childcare in their own home. There are Public Health rules you need to comply with: If you’re unable to access childcare to perform your essential service, the government has agreed that it will fund other licensed childcare providers to provide in-home care to the children aged 0 to 14 of essential workers. Examples of licensed childcare providers are PORSE, OSCAR and Barnados. They would be subject to the same Public Health rules as set out above. For the purposes of providing care to children of essential workers, the in-home carer will be classified as an essential worker. This type of care will continue to be funded until 8 May. After this date, parents and caregivers will need to make their own arrangements. List of all available providers (external link) Some of the key providers include: Barnados website (external link) Email: covid19enquiries@barnardos.org.nz Phone: 0800 BARNARDOS ( 0800 227 627 ) Email: info@hgk.co.nz Phone: 0508 44 54 37 PORSE website (external link) Phone: 0800 023 456 At Alert Level 2, parenting arrangements can return to normal. Household bubbles don't need to be maintained and you can reconnect with friends and family, in a safe way. It's safe to send you children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. Children can travel freely for the purpose of parenting arrangements. There's no restriction on distance for domestic travel. Children still must not move between households if they show symptoms of COVID-19, are awaiting a test or are required to self-isolate. Make sure you travel in a safe way and follow public health measures. Public transport is available to anyone at Alert Level 2. Keep in mind that there’s less capacity on public transport because of physical distancing so if you can, consider travelling at off-peak times or walking or cycling. You should not travel on public transport if you’re unwell. Information on how to stay safe while using public transport (external link) Lawyers and other legal services are available during Alert Level 2 — physical consultations will need to follow public health measures. You can find a list of legal aid lawyers on the Ministry of Justice website or you may be eligible for assistance from a Community Law Centre. If you have a dispute on shared parenting the Family Court may be able to assist. Information about Family Court services under Alert Level 2 (external link) If you were doing Family Dispute Resolution check with your provider. These services will be available under Alert Level 2 but the way they are delivered may change, including doing some of the programme by phone or online. Call 0800 COURTS (0800 268 787) if you need other information about Family Court. If you’re making your own childcare arrangements, you can use your existing networks for in-home care. For example, a neighbour, relative, friend or current carer/nanny who can come to your house or provide childcare in their own home. There are Public Health rules you need to comply with: At Alert Level 3, children may move between households under a shared custody arrangement. Household bubbles can be extended slightly, but must remain exclusive. Children can move between different regions. However, only travel where you need to. Take a copy of your court order or parenting arrangement with you, to help explain your travel. Use private vehicles to transport children where possible. You can use public transport if you don't have another option. Guidance for managing shared parenting during COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) The best thing everyone can do to stop the spread of COVID-19 is to stay home. This includes parents with shared custody arrangements and their children. The Principal Family Court Judge has released guidance for parents with shared custody arrangements. Generally, children whose parents live within an hour’s drive of each other can continue to go between 2 homes if you have a shared bubble arrangement. Your shared bubble can include 2 households at most. An arrangement with more than 2 households would risk spreading COVID-19. Simple precautions should be taken to protect the health of parents and children. This includes parents from different households keeping a distance of more than 2 metres. If parents are more than an hour’s drive away, then the children should stay in one home. Children should also stay in one home if they're feeling unwell, or if someone in their home is unwell or has been overseas in the last 14 days. This will protect the health of parents, caregivers and children. If you’re worried that a child or young person you know isn't safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Phone: 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Email: contact@ot.govt.nz If you're caring for a child who is immunocompromised there's more information about how you can care for them from the Ministry of Health. Ministry of Health general health advice (external link) Last modified: 26 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: At Alert Level 2, Early Learning Centres, schools and tertiary education facilities are open. If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it must close for 72 hours to allow for contact tracing, and then potentially for a further 14 days. Children or young people must stay home if they: Distance learning will be available for any students not able to attend school. All Early Learning Centres and schools are physically open including for Years 11 to 13. Distance learning will be available for those who cannot attend school, for example where people are self-isolating. Early Learning Centres and schools are safe environments for children, young people and staff. Additional public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease and to support contact tracing. Parents and caregivers can use the Ministry of Education’s checklist to help prepare children and young people for school. The checklist has information about playing it safe, what to do if your child needs to stay home, and advice for children at different ages. Checklist for parents to prepare for Alert Level 2 on the Ministry of Education website (external link) Tertiary education facilities are open. Tertiary education is a safe environment for students and staff to return to at Alert Level 2. Tertiary education facilities will implement public health requirements and physical distancing and will provide a safe environment where students can continue their learning. They will maintain distance learning capability for staff and students who need it. Workplace-based learning will follow the rules that apply to the relevant industry. Under Alert Level 3 it will be safe for Early Learning/Education Centres and schools to open for children up to and including Year 10, with appropriate public health measures in place. All young people in Years 11–13 will continue to learn at home. Where possible, students should remain at home and continue distance learning. Where parents or caregivers need to, they can send their children to school. Schools will be a safe place for children to go to learn if their parents need to return to work, or the children cannot learn at a distance. Schools and Early Learning/Education Centres will contact parents as they work through their plans for re-opening. Home-based early learning services can resume up to the maximum number of licensed children of 4, including the educators’ own children, provided they meet public health requirements. Play centres and playgroups will be closed. Personal protective equipment (PPE) like gloves and masks are not necessary for a school environment. Children, young people and staff who are at greater risk should stay at home. Any child, young person or staff member who is sick should remain at home. Some Schools and Early Learning Services may need extra time to get ready to open after we go to Alert Level 3. Schools will look different under Alert Level 3. There will be far fewer students on the grounds, and they will stay within their small groups. The small groups will help to maintain physical distancing. Some teachers will be teaching students at school, while others will support distance learning. For those small number of children attending school, the learning experience will be different to “normal” school. Tertiary education will be provided online. Certain small groups can work together at tertiary institutions. Student accommodation will remain open for students who require it. For details please contact your education provider or go to the Ministry of Education website. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers / whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) Educational providers, including all schools, will be closed while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Schools and students have been supported with distance learning resources since Term 2 began on 15 April. Schools are providing information about what this means directly to parents. Term 2 began by distance on 15 April. Every learner in New Zealand has at least one way to access education, even if they do not have a device or an internet connection at home. The Ministry of Education is working to increase the number of students who have internet access and devices. Hard copy learning resources are available to students without internet access. Two television channels are broadcasting free to air content for children and students who find it tricky to learn online, or who don’t have hard pack learning resources. Home Learning/Papa Kāinga TV is available for children and young people aged 0 to 15. It airs 9am to 3pm on schooldays across channels TVNZ 2+1, TVNZ on Demand, and Sky Channel 502. Content includes play, literacy, mathematics, science, te reo Māori, physical education and wellbeing. Māori Television content focuses on learning at home for tamariki, rangatahi and whānau, aged from 0 to 18. It is tailored to specific age groups during the day, with learning content tamariki can do on their own, with siblings or as a whānau. Learning from home (external link) Ki to Ao Mārama (external link) Ministry of Education (external link) If you’re worried that a child or young person you know isn't safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Phone: 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Email: contact@ot.govt.nz If you're caring for a child who is immunocompromised there's more information about how you can care for them from the Ministry of Health. Ministry of Health general health advice (external link) Last modified: 26 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events such as COVID-19. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. Children need factual, age-appropriate information about COVID-19 so that they can also feel informed and in control. They need to know how they can play a part in avoiding infection and slowing the spread of the virus. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. If no one in your family has COVID-19, been in close contact with anyone with COVID-19 or are immune-compromised, emphasise to your children that they and your family are fine. Evidence shows children are less susceptible to COVID-19. Parents and caregivers should follow standard guidelines to prevent the virus spreading by: Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. Dr Michelle Dickinson has some great videos for kids about COVID-19 (external link) During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Now is a good time to learn about keeping your family safe online. You might consider making an online safety plan or use tools such as parental controls to manage what your children can access. Further guidance on internet safety, including resources for parents If you’re worried that a child or young person you know isn't safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Phone: 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Email: contact@ot.govt.nz If you're caring for a child who is immunocompromised there's more information about how you can care for them from the Ministry of Health. Ministry of Health general health advice (external link) The guidance on managing shared custody is different for each of the Alert Levels . Guidance for shared parenting Last modified: 29 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: This is a good time for parents and caregivers to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time, and privacy. We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz . It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the Police or call 111 for emergencies. Make a non-emergency report to the Police (external link) Last modified: 27 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Advice about shopping during COVID-19. Advice about safely shopping. Advice for accessing goods and services, such as food shopping, healthcare, waste collection, and vets. Advice on support available if you need help getting groceries and other essential supplies. You can get takeaways at Alert Levels 1, 2, and 3. You can go to cafes, restaurants and bars at Alert Levels 1 and 2.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: Goods and services available at all Alert Levels: Supermarkets and dairies are open at all Alert Levels. Supermarket websites tell you if they have online shopping available for everyone. If they’re reserving online shopping for people over 70 or at-risk people, you should go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. Guidance for shopping safely Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) Doctors, hospitals and pharmacies are open at all Alert Levels. Call your doctor before you visit them. Guidance for getting healthcare If you need help, there is financial support available. This includes help with financial hardship from Work and Income, protection for renters and tenants, and a mortgage repayment holiday. Find out what financial support is available Waste collection will occur at all Alert Levels. Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. More guidance about waste collection Funeral directors provide essential services and will continue working at all Alert Levels. However, to stop the spread of COVID-19, gathering together for funerals and tangihanga isn't permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. The rules for funerals and tangihanga are different for each Alert Level. Information about funerals and tangihanga Veterinary services are available at all Alert Levels. If you’re self-isolating, you must phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) Please stay at home as much as you can under Alert Levels 3 and 4. Any unnecessary travel could spread COVID-19. You can leave home under Alert Levels 1 and 2, if you can do so safely. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Guidance for leaving your house If you need help getting supplies, such as food, medicine, or transport to get essential goods, your local Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group can help. Get support to access essential services Last modified: 13 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants and bars can open and have customers on their premises. They must meet requirements to keep their customers safe. Delivery, drive-through or contactless pick-up may still be available. The 3 S's will be in place if you're dining in. You can order and collect food from the counter in cafes or fast food restaurants that don’t hold an on-licence or club licence. If you’re dining in, once you have ordered or collected your food, you must return to your seat. You must stay seated unless you’re using the bathroom or paying for your meal. On-licenced and club-licenced premises must continue to adhere to the 3 S's at all times, with a requirement to use table service. Food businesses can open at Alert Level 3, but only for takeaway, delivery or drive through. If you are picking up food in person, make sure you do this as safely as possible. You won't be allowed to enter the store, and need to maintain a 2 metre distance from others. Don't go out to get takeaways if you're sick with cold and flu-like symptoms. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick food up or get it delivered. Last modified: 13 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: Work and Income may be able to help you pay for groceries or goods, if you’re on a low income or a benefit. Find out how Work and Income can help (external link) The Student Volunteer Army offers a contactless food ordering and delivery service for: Request support from the Student Volunteer Army (external link) If you have to self-isolate, you may need extra help to get: Ask your support networks, such as whanau, friends, iwi and neighbours. You can also ask community providers to help. If you don’t have support networks, you can get support from your local Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group. They work with food banks and other organisations to make sure that people in need can get food and supplies. Information for food banks, food rescue and community food services (external link) Your local Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group works 7 days a week from 9am to 5pm. This service is for people that do not have any other options available to them. The phone number for your local CDEM group is below. List updated 9 May 2020. Call 111 for Fire and Emergency, Police or Ambulance. Last modified: 13 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print Supermarkets, dairies, and petrol stations are open in the same way they have been since the start of COVID-19. All other shops can open if they can safely do so. This means following relevant health restrictions and physical distancing to protect their employees and customers. Plan your shopping in advance. Do not make multiple trips and make sure you know what restrictions shops have in place. Be kind to employees and fellow shoppers. Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19, or was told to self-isolate. If you must self-isolate, ask someone else to pick up supplies. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell Supermarkets’ websites will tell you if they have slots available for general online shopping. If they reserve these for sick or vulnerable people, you should go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. It is okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries. They should follow the advice that applies to the Alert Level we’re in. Last modified: 13 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Advice is available on all aspects of domestic and international travel. Advice for when you leave your house. Advice if you are arriving back in New Zealand. Advice for travelling within New Zealand. Advice if you're planning international travel. Advice for New Zealanders who are outside New Zealand. Travelling in New Zealand on public transport, in cars and if you are walking, cycling or scootering. Advice for travelling in taxis or using ride-sharing services. Cruise ships are currently banned from coming into New Zealand. You should avoid all non-essential travel including cruise ships. Advice for visa holders.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: Only New Zealand citizens and residents can enter New Zealand. You will be placed in a hotel under what is called managed isolation. Anyone with symptoms of COVID-19 will be taken to a different hotel for quarantine. You will need to stay in the hotel for at least 14 days. There will be strict conditions around access to the outdoors and interactions with others; this will not change as the New Zealand alert levels go up or down. Government officials will explain what will be happening and answer any questions. You will then be screened for COVID-19 symptoms such as a high temperature. If you have symptoms of COVID-19 or you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test you will go to the quarantine hotel. Otherwise, you will go to one of the hotels being used for managed isolation. You will be assigned a room for your stay, taking into account how many people are with you. You won’t need to pay for the accommodation or meals, they will be provided. In managed isolation you will have opportunities to take a short walk for fresh air. In quarantine you won’t be able to go outside. The government repatriation team will be in regular contact and can provide any support you need. All meals are provided, so there is no need to bring food with you. Remember that New Zealand has strict biosecurity laws about bringing food into the country. Information about bringing food and other risk items into New Zealand (external link) Hotels being used for isolation or quarantine can’t store food. Let staff know as soon as possible if you have dietary requirements. Hotels will do their best to give you what you need. You can drink alcohol in managed isolation, just remember to drink in moderation. You won’t be able to go to the shops when you arrive, so bring everything you need for daily life. You will be able to leave managed isolation after 14 days. You’ll be asked for details about your onward travel plans and where you will be staying. If you need help with accommodation our team can support you with making arrangements. You will be able to leave quarantine after you have: You will also need to have a travel plan and tell us about where you plan to be staying. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. A very small number of people may be eligible for exemption from managed isolation. If an exemption is granted, you must still complete your 14-day self-isolation at home. You can apply for an exemption either before you fly to New Zealand or while in managed isolation. The exemption categories are as follows. To apply, complete the application form and email it to MI_Exemptions@health.govt.nz with the subject "Application for exemption from managed isolation". Application form for exemption from managed self-isolation (external link) The information you are required to provide includes: Guidance on what to include in your self-isolation plan (external link) If you applied for an exemption and it was declined, you can request that your application be reconsidered. To have your application reconsidered, email MI_Exemptions@health.govt.nz and provide the details of your original application with any requested additional information. If you are unhappy with your review decision, or if you have not received a review decision promptly, you can complain directly to the Ombudsman via the Ombudsman’s website or email info@ombudsman.parliament.nz with ‘Urgent exemption complaint’ in the subject line. Call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 5pm, 7 days a week. For advice, support and general enquiries please call 0800 22 66 57 , 8am to 5pm, Monday to Friday and 8am to 5pm, weekends and public holidays. Find COVID-19 information from Immigration New Zealand (external link) Or call Immigration New Zealand on 0508 225 288 or +64 9 952 1679 if you’re outside New Zealand. Welfare information about health and wellbeing, financial support, accommodation support, schools and early childhood, animal welfare, information for international visitors. Last modified: 27 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. If you’re a New Zealander currently outside New Zealand and you’re intending to return home, you’re encouraged to do so as soon as possible. You can still return to New Zealand if you’re: You can also bring immediate family, such as a partner or spouse, legal guardian and dependent children under the age of 24. When you arrive in New Zealand you will go into managed isolation or quarantine for at least 14 days. Information for people arriving in New Zealand Countries around the world are closing their borders and imposing stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. You should contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. You should also contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from, or transiting through, areas affected by border measures. Get emergency consular assistance if you need it. Call: More help from SafeTravel (external link) All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian super. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) Last modified: 17 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Cruise ships are banned from coming into New Zealand until at least 30 June 2020. All people in New Zealand are advised to avoid all non-essential overseas travel, including cruises. The virus can spread quickly onboard cruises due to the close contact between passengers. Some cruise ships have been put into quarantine, and countries have denied entry to ports, which can have significant consequences for travellers. Last modified: 22 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: The New Zealand Government has made further travel restrictions to slow the spread of the COVID-19 virus. New Zealand's borders are closed for entry to almost all travellers. New Zealand citizens and residents may return but will be subject to restrictions upon entry. No other foreign traveller can now enter New Zealand. Information for imminent or recent arrivals More information on travel visas Exceptions can be made on a case-by-case basis by Immigration New Zealand. List of exceptions from Immigration New Zealand (external link) The New Zealand Government has entered into transit arrangements with a range of countries to make it easier for each other’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that detail who may transit New Zealand are published by Immigration NZ. Current transit arrangements from Immigration NZ (external link) New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. It's also urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to return home while commercial options remain available. There are extensive border restrictions in place around the world and increasingly limited transport options. New Zealanders are advised to register their details with SafeTravel, in order to receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) All travellers should consult the official website of the country they wish to enter or transit, or that country's diplomatic representative in their country of departure, before travelling. They should also contact their travel insurance provider. As the global situation changes, and more borders close, it will become harder to travel. Foreign nationals can use international air services to travel home. Foreign nationals in New Zealand can now take domestic flights in order to connect with commercial, or chartered, international flights to their home country. Criteria for taking a domestic flight to connect with an international flight Don't go to the airport unless you have a ticket. If you don't have ticket contact a travel agent or airline directly. If you're unable to secure a ticket please contact your country embassy. How to get home guide and other information (external link) We're sympathetic to individuals who are currently in New Zealand and are unable to return to their home at the moment. Travellers with a temporary visa due to expire between 1 April and 9 July 2020 will have their visas extended to late September. Confirmation of extensions will be emailed to all visa holders. More information on Travel visas The Government is providing temporary accommodation to those required to self-isolate who are unable to do so in their own homes or are travellers visiting New Zealand and don't already have suitable self-isolation accommodation arranged. There's a cost for temporary accommodation and the Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. How to get temporary accommodation (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand (external link) Last modified: 11 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: At Alert Level 2, we have the freedom to do more, but it's important that we all follow public health measures and consider others around us. Do everything you can to reduce the risk of transmission. There are times you should not be out and about. If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, take extra care when you leave your house. Guidance for at-risk people Guidance is available to help you stay safe at Alert Level 2. Just like Alert Level 4, people should stay at home as much as possible except for exercise, going to work or school, or visiting local services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness should you contract COVID-19, you need to be especially careful. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] If you do leave the house: See more tips about shopping safely See more information about exercising safely Some people will need to go outside occasionally. For example, to take a short walk for exercise or mental wellbeing, or to visit local essential services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you're over 70, or are immunosuppressed, you should not be leaving the house at all. If you do leave the house: See more tips about shopping safely Staying close to home is one of the most important things we can do to reduce the risk of spreading the disease. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local “close” will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. You can exercise at parks or beaches within your region, but the closer to home the better. Activities must be safe. Keep 2 metres away from anybody not in your bubble. Make minimal trips. Most of all during this time, we encourage you to continue to be kind to one another. Stay in touch with your older relatives and vulnerable people, talk to your friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone and see if they need your support. Acts of kindness and maintaining these connections is essential while we work to stop the spread of COVID-19. Travelling on public transport, in cars and walking, cycling or scootering Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way: You must not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk on public transport: You can use a private vehicle for transport. Please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine. Keep a 2 metre distance from other pedestrians. Take extra care if you need to step out into the street as there will be more traffic at Alert Level 2. At Alert Level 3, travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Don’t travel outside of your region unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. You can use public transport to travel within your local area, but only for the following reasons: Maintain physical distancing from other people on public transport, unless you are travelling with people in your bubble. You can use a private vehicle for transport, but only for: You should only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your bubble. At Alert Level 4, all types of transport and travel are restricted. Only use public transport and private vehicles for essential reasons. Public transport during Alert Level 4 is only available for people working in essential services, and for the general public to access essential services, for example for medical reasons or to get to the supermarket. Ferry services, road and rail will still be available for the transport of essential goods. More information from the Ministry of Transport (external link) You can use a private vehicle for transport, but only for: You should only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. If your Warrant of Fitness or Certificate of Fitness expired after 1 January 2020, it will be considered valid for up to 6 months from 10 April 2020. If you are driving a vehicle with an expired Warrant of Fitness, you are expected to ensure the vehicle is safe. If you think your vehicle is unsafe, do not drive it. If your driver licence expired after 1 January 2020, it will be considered valid for up to 6 months from 10 April 2020. License endorsements, such as for driving commercial passengers or carrying dangerous goods, that expired after 1 March 2020 will also be extended for up to 6 months. Any licence suspensions and disqualifications will continue to apply. Further guidance from the Ministry of Transport (external link) Walking and other active travel like cycling or scootering, are fine during Alert Level 4, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your household. Stick to simple outdoor exercise near to where you live and avoid areas where you can get injured or lost. It’s important the emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Any questions relating to transport should go to the Ministry of Transport at essentialtransport@transport.govt.nz . Ministry of Transport guidance on transport during Alert Level 4 (external link) If you have any COVID-19 related concerns please call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice before you travel. To help limit the spread of any virus, those who are unwell should stay at home. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . Last modified: 25 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. If you have COVID-19 related symptoms call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice before you travel. If you’re healthy and don't have COVID-19 -related symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Guidelines when travelling by taxi or ride-share: If you don't have COVID-19 related symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services for only for the following reasons: If you don't have COVID-19 related symptoms you can use taxis and ride-sharing services, but only for essential reasons. In addition to general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home you should also wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with water and soap and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. Passengers must sit in the rear passenger seats only — you must not sit in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you’re the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle. Most cars normally have 3 rear passenger seats. Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information if not already provided, for example, electronically through an app or booking system. More details about transport restrictions (external link) Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: If you're a visitor to New Zealand and you can't return home at the moment — check your visa. We're sympathetic to individuals who are currently in New Zealand and can't return to their home. Some visas have been automatically extended. Your visa will have been extended to 25 September 2020 if: Confirmation of extensions will be emailed to all visa holders. If you now wish to work while in New Zealand because your situation has changed, please ensure you have the correct visa. You can apply for a new work visa while you are in New Zealand. Call 0508 558 855 to get more information. Immigration changes because of COVID-19 (external link) Visa conditions have been relaxed for temporary migrant workers and international students who work in essential services. This temporary measure will support our essential services during the COVID-19 response. More information at Immigration NZ (external link) Immigration New Zealand has increased its visa processing capacity, and has resumed processing paper-based residence visa applications. More information at Immigration NZ (external link) The New Zealand borders are closed for all but critical travel — protecting public health in New Zealand is paramount. If you're a New Zealand citizen or resident you may return to New Zealand. You do not need approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling. See more information about arriving back in New Zealand If you're not a New Zealand citizen or resident you need to get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Travel exceptions can include: All other travel to New Zealand by people who hold an NZeTA or current work, student, visitor, limited, or transit visa is not allowed. The Government has postponed: This is a temporary measure. Immigration NZ will continue to reassess and determine when these programmes can resume. More information at Immigration NZ (external link) Welfare information about health and wellbeing, financial support, accommodation support, schools and early childhood, animal welfare, information for international visitors. Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The information on this page is also available in accessible formats: You can travel between regions at Alert Level 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Guidelines for travelling around the country: You must not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk while travelling: You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe and track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew including: You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely.  Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: You're only allowed to travel in your local area if it’s for an essential reason. Essential reasons include travel to: If you’re travelling by public transport you should avoid peak times unless you're travelling for work or school. While we're at Alert Level 3 you can only travel between regions if you’re: Regions map [PDF, 6 MB] If you were in the wrong place when the restrictions came into place, and need to get home, you can now move throughout New Zealand to do so. You can only move once and in one direction. You're not allowed to travel between regions for any other reason. Information on inter-regional travel from the Ministry of Transport (external link) You must not travel if you: Advice about staying at home and self-isolating At Alert Level 4 travel is severely limited. You’re only allowed to travel locally if it's for an essential reason. Otherwise, you must stay at home and within your bubble. You can only travel within, or between, regions if you’re: No other regional travel is allowed. Transport providers will ensure physical distancing is enforced during travel. Foreign nationals in New Zealand can travel domestically in order to connect with international flights to their home country. To travel to an international airport you can: You must travel by the most direct route, and comply with physical distancing requirements throughout your journey. There are several criteria that foreign nationals must meet in order to travel to an international airport: You must also meet the following public health criteria, and will be questioned before travelling. You must meet all these requirements: Any foreign national who does not meet those criteria should continue to shelter in place in their current location. If you fail to meet these criteria you won't be able to take your international flight and may have to go into quarantine or managed self-isolation. Foreign nationals who require more information or support should contact their country’s embassy or consulate. Chartered flights will be organised and ticketed through foreign missions. Information about embassies in New Zealand (external link) You should make every effort to return your rental vehicle to a representative of the company you hired from. If you’re unable to return the rented vehicle: If arriving by domestic flight: You’ll be required to present your ticket and passport before you can enter the international terminal. You must immediately self-isolate in accordance with Alert Level 4 restrictions if: You must check-in for your flight as soon as it's open, and immediately proceed through security and immigration. Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The latest updates on COVID-19 from the New Zealand Government. Displaying 1-10 of 147 updates 01 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. 31 May 2020 The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. 30 May 2020 The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. 29 May 2020 There was no media conference today. Instead, the Ministry of Health published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. 28 May 2020 Read about the changes coming into effect on Friday 29 May. 28 May 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 27 May 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 26 May 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 25 May 2020 The Government has announced an increase to the number of people who can gather together at Alert Level 2. 25 May 2020 The Government has announced a 12-week payment to support people in this situation. Information and advice for people with particular accessibility needs. Accessible information Information translated into 25+ languages. Translated information
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Government has allocated $100 million to help redeploy workers affected by the economic impact of COVID-19, with the hard-hit region of Gisborne-Tairāwhiti to be the first helped, Economic Development Minister Phil Twyford, Forestry and Regional Economic Development Minister Shane Jones and Employment Minister Willie Jackson announced today. Find out more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Finance Minister Grant Robertson today outlined a $12.1 billion package to support New Zealanders and their jobs from the global impact of COVID-19. Read more (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Government has reinforced its commitment to protecting the health of New Zealanders from COVID-19 through the cancellation of indoor events with more than 100 people. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) For more information and guidance visit the Ministry of Health website (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Where possible, essential workers need to make their own arrangements for childcare, due to limited capacity. We know this will not be possible for everyone. Alternative arrangements have been made so essential workers can access childcare and continue to work. Find advice for essential workers making childcare arrangements Generally, children in the same communities can continue to go between their homes. Simple precautions should be taken to protect the health of parents and children. This includes parents from different households keeping a distance of more than 2 metres. More advice for families with shared custody Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Amendments to the Government Order allowing gatherings to increase from 10 people to 100 people have been published. COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level 2) Amendment Order 2020 (external link) It is important to remember that these changes don’t take effect until midday Friday 29 May 2020 . The Amendment to the Order includes some other important changes for life at Alert Level 2 — this is part of the gradual easing of restrictions that will happen as we move towards Alert Level 1. Cabinet will next review the settings of Alert Level 2 on 8 June. Cabinet will also consider a move to Alert Level 1 no later than 22 June.  The limit for social gatherings will be lifted to 100 people. These include events at home and outside of home like religious services, parties, weddings, tangihanga and funerals. It is important everyone keeps playing it safe. This means: Some examples: The new Order makes a number of other changes to the way Alert Level 2 rules will operate from Friday 29 May. Businesses and institutions, including faith-based gatherings and clubs, will be able to operate with defined, separated areas. The 100 person maximum (for hospitality, event facilities, and social gatherings) applies per area, as long as intermingling in common spaces, such as entrances, exits and toilets, can be prevented. This also applies to separate businesses that operate from the same location. This means: Some examples: Amendments to the Order make it clear that counter service — ordering and collecting food from a counter — is allowed, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. This means: Businesses no longer need to record a person’s residential address for contact tracing purposes. All businesses need to collect and maintain a record of workers, and all businesses other than retail need to collect and maintain a record of customers and visitors to their premises — including names, visit times and an effective means of communication such as phone number or email address. Businesses that collect personal information need to treat it with care and keep it safe. This means businesses should: A business that uses a booking system, for example a hairdresser, that already captures names, times and contact details is not required to run a separate system for keeping records for contact tracing purposes. Amendments to the Order clarify that faith-based gatherings and some gatherings at clubs are classed as social gatherings. This means: Some examples: Faith-based gatherings and clubs will be able to operate with defined, separated areas, with the 100 person maximum applying per area, as long as intermingling in common spaces, such as entrances, exits and toilets, can be prevented. Amendments to the Order have clarified which rules apply to hired facilities or venues. If a facility or venue has been hired for a social gathering – then the social gatherings rules apply. Hiring means the use of the venue has been purchased – not just food or drink that is sold at the facility or venue. For any facility or venue that has been hired for a social gathering, intermingling between attendees, including dancing, is permitted. Facilities or venues can be commercial, for example a restaurant or bar, or non-commercial, for example a community or church hall. Some examples: Last modified: 29 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Government’s commitment to protecting New Zealanders’ health is being backed by an initial dedicated $500 million fund to strengthen our health services to fight and contain COVID-19. They have announced: Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. To ensure everybody continues to have access to the prescription medication they need, PHARMAC are temporarily changing the amount pharmacists can dispense at any one time. People will continue to be able to fill prescriptions at their local pharmacy, though you may have to visit more frequently than previously. Many pharmacies are operating delivery options for vulnerable customers. Read more on the Pharmac website (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Government has announced changes to the number of people who can attend funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2. These changes balance the significant risk of COVID-19 spreading with the need for people to come together to grieve their loved ones. At Alert Level 2, funeral directors can seek approval to allow up to 50 people to attend a funeral or tangihanga. The Ministry of Health must be satisfied that a range of public health measures can consistently be met, such as physical distancing, hand hygiene and no food and drink congregations afterwards. Read the media release on the Beehive website (external link) Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga (external link)  Last modified: 13 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Government has advised public events or mass gatherings where 500 or more people are together in one place, at one time should be cancelled. Examples include concerts, festivals and sports matches. Read more (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The COVID-19 media conference with the Director-General of Health took place at 1pm. Speaker: Last modified: 21 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The 19 May COVID-19 media conference took place at 1pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference: Last modified: 20 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Kia ora koutou katoa. Just me today. So today there are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in New Zealand; however, our total number of confirmed cases today increases by four. Let me explain. These cases are people who returned to New Zealand from the Greg Mortimer cruise ship back in April—13 April—and they had all tested positive for COVID-19 in Uruguay before they came back. They had been classified as under investigation while we were awaiting information from Uruguay to avoid them being double-counted as part of the overall World Health Organization numbers. We have now confirmed with our counterparts in Uruguay that they did not report those cases; so we are. I should say that all four of these people have recovered, and for those of you who recall, actually we had added three of them to our total and then took three off. The fourth of these had also tested positive in Uruguay, but then, upon arrival in New Zealand, when we tested all of those passengers, all 13 of them who returned off that ship, that fourth person tested negative and subsequently tested positive. So we have these four historical cases. We are now adding them to the New Zealand total to add to the World Health Organization total. I’m sure that is all very clear! I’m happy to answer questions on that later. But, suffice to say, back to my original statement, there are no new cases to report, which is encouraging. Media: How many tests— Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Questions I’ll take at the end, if that’s all right. Our total number of confirmed cases, despite there being no new cases, is therefore 1,153, and 350 of these are probable cases. So 1,153 confirmed cases, 350 probable cases, and the combined total is now 1,503. A total of 96 percent of all confirmed and probable cases have now recovered—that’s 1,442, an increase of nine on yesterday. There are just two people in hospital again today: in Auckland and Middlemore hospitals. Neither is in ICU and, I’m pleased to say, there are no further deaths to report. Yesterday, there were a total of 3,125 lab tests completed, and the grand total is now 233,843 completed tests. As I signalled yesterday, overnight I participated in the opening session, at least, of the World Health Assembly. It started at 10 p.m. New Zealand time last evening. In the opening session there were statements from a number of country leaders, including Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, President Macron from France, and Xi Jinping from China. And all had the same theme that they were covering, which was strong support for global cooperation in the response to COVID-19. The WHO director-general Tedros also spoke at the beginning of the meeting, and as part of his address—and it was public, and some of you may have already seen that—he announced that he intends to initiative an independent evaluation of the COVID-19 response to develop recommendations that will help improve national and global pandemic preparedness in light of the COVID-19 experience. The timing of that evaluation is still to be announced, and a number of people who commented in that opening session did point out that it is important we do do this review or evaluation; however, it is also important that the WHO and member States are not distracted at this point from their efforts in responding to the COVID-19 pandemic. But the director-general did indicate it would be undertaken at the earliest possible moment. Our strong focus remains on fighting the pandemic now and we will, of course, contribute as we can to the evaluation when it commences to ensure we both learn and are able to share our experience. The meeting is about to pause and will be reconvened again tonight, and the resolution on COVID-19, which is a lengthy and substantial resolution that has been agreed by consensus by all WHO member States, will be considered again when it reconvenes. Today is World Family Doctor Day, and in New Zealand we don’t tend to call our GPs “family doctors”, but I would like to shout out to the around 5,500 GPs in New Zealand for the work that they do day in, day out—and, of course, for the magnificent role they have played, along with their colleagues, as part of our response over recent months to the challenge of COVID-19. We’ve seen them fully involved in the swabbing, through CBACs or in their own practices, and also adapting very quickly to be able to provide care to people under alert level 4 virtually, using either video or phone calls. And, finally, the Prime Minister announced yesterday the launch tomorrow of an app that will be part of our ongoing efforts around contact tracing. It will be available for download tomorrow, and I’ll provide some more details about it at tomorrow’s press conference. Are there any questions? Media : Have you revised your position on mask use, especially on public transport? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not at this point, but it’s still very actively under consideration, not just whether or not masks may be useful in public transport but all the different policy implications, including around supply for people; whether use of masks on public transport may mean you could relax some of the physical distancing arrangements; whether it’s just public transport or, indeed, in other settings; and also the relevance of using them in alert level 2, and also if we’re looking to move to alert level 1, as well. Media : Is there more of a reluctance because of those supply concerns, or cost concerns, around PPE? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Actually, no reluctance around the use of masks. I guess, it’s just making sure we’re considering what role they may have in our overall response; and, if so, if they’ve been used by the general public, whether recommended or required, the full raft of policy issues, including that people have got access to them. Media : Just on the low prevalence of COVID-19 in the community at the moment, does that influence the decision on whether or not to recommend or mandate the wearing of masks? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, it does, and it influences a range of things, really, including our advice that’s being developed for Cabinet to consider on Monday about increasing group size. It, obviously, will be very influential in terms of our advice around the possible move down to alert level 1. And so masks and the use of masks is one consideration there. Likewise, we’re finalising our planning around testing—surveillance and sentinel testing—in alert level 2, and then, potentially, how that would look under an alert level 1 scenario. So yes, the number of cases in the community, and what is increasingly a very low risk of there being community transmission out there, definitely influences whether or not we should be advising around or recommending the use of masks. Media : Just on alert level 1, what do we need to do to satisfy ourselves that we’ve completed level 2 and we’re ready to move down? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It’s too premature for me to comment on that. That work is just getting under way, and I really don’t have anything further to say about that at the moment. We’re only just into alert level 2. We still need to settle into the full alert level 2 parameters, which include going up to group sizes of 100. But, obviously, we’re just starting to think about what alert level 1 would look like, and if things were good and our advice was we could move to alert level 1, how that transmission might be made. Media : Are you starting to see a pick-up of respiratory diseases again—non-COVID related ones? There was, obviously, a dearth of them during the lockdown, but now we’re out of lockdown, are they coming back? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There’s no evidence of that as yet, actually. And we have weekly surveillance reports on influenza-like illness. One of the dimensions of that is through the HealthStat data, which pulls data out of GPs’—general practitioners’— databases every night to see which consultations are coded as influenza-like illness. This year we’ve increased the number of practices participating from under—it was under 100, I think 90; it’s now up, I think, around 360. So we’ll have a very good spread. It’s over a third of our practices around the country. So we will get a very quick signal as to whether there is an increase in influenza-like illness. Media : Is that making it hard to kind of find people to test, if no one’s actually really sick? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, most of our testing at the moment is asymptomatic people that is being done as part of our surveillance testing. But so saying, there is still some symptomatic testing, and that will continue to be important. As we see an increase in respiratory illness across the community, heading into winter, there will be more testing of symptomatic people—there’s no doubt about that. Media : There’s been a few more outbreaks in Australia over recent weeks. Going forwards in that trans-Tasman bubble, is it the position of you and, I guess, the Ministry of Health that if there is any community transmission in Australia, we shouldn’t open up travel? Or could there be some low level of community transmission that was kind of acceptable? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I don’t want to sort of pre-empt the discussions with Australia, but that’s one of the things both countries will be looking at is it’s not just whether there is community transmission, in and of itself, but the nature of it and whether it’s contained, because it’s that uncontrolled community transmission we will both be interested in avoiding in the first place. And that, I think, will be a key determinant of whether we may be able to go into a trans-Tasman bubble arrangement and continue that. Media : On those four cases that you talked about, is there sort of, I guess, a global rule of thumb around who counts cases where, and was it your impression that they would be counted in Uruguay and then weren’t? Or how does that sort of work? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, each country has what they call a focal point under the international health regulations, and that focal point is responsible for the reporting to and communication with the World Health Organization. So when a situation like this arises, and we’ve had it on a few occasions with Australia as well, where we’ve had cases here—for example, around that Hereford cattle conference—where people went back to Australia, they were subsequently found to be infected, so we liaise with their focal points just to determine who is doing the reporting. In this case, Uruguay, we confirmed, hadn’t reported, so we’ve taken that upon ourselves then to report those confirmed cases. Media : Because that’s quite a long lag time as well. Was that just because you were going backwards and forwards trying to work out who was going to count it or what? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think it was just a matter of the time it took to get a response from our counterparts in Uruguay and then agree—the public health unit then determined, once they had had that information that these cases should be uploaded into our EpiSurv database as confirmed cases, and that’s what they’ve done. Media : Given the high number of tests that we’re still doing, and it sounds like we’re planning to continue testing large numbers of people in the future, how are you feeling about the supply chain of the reagent and the testing material in New Zealand and its security? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I’m feeling confident about that, and that’s one of the things that our team and the laboratories have been working on very hard—you know, no better description for it—because our supplies, actually, now are higher than they ever have been. We have supplies for, I think, between 30 and 40 days of testing at the current rate we are doing, and that’s higher than it’s ever been, and we have a range of supplies coming into the country at all times. So I think we’re in a really good position there. Media : There are some countries around the world—I think the UK’s having some difficulty with the supply chains. Why are we not facing those same issues? Why are we immune to that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, a couple of reasons. One is it’s a slightly smaller scale here than in the UK, but remember we stepped up our testing quite quickly early on when other countries were still testing at much lower rates, and we have got a range of platforms we use. So each individual supply chain is challenging, but if you can, as our team have been doing—is working each of those supply chains just to continue to get supplies coming in and, if necessary, for example, if one of our labs has a bit of a shortage for a few days, we can shift volumes of tests to one of the other labs in the meantime. Media : Do you have an idea of how many of those elective surgeries that were put off during lockdown have now been completed or how big that backlog’s been shrunk? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t have an idea of numbers and it’s probably too soon for us to be able to report on that, but I can say that in our twice weekly meetings with the DHB chief executives, this is a really key focus. And, actually, I’ve got colleagues I’m working with—and you may well have them too—who had surgery deferred during the lockdown period and they’re now being called in and having that surgery. So I can say all DHBs are working hard to make sure that people get the care as soon as possible, including using capacity in the private sector where that’s available. Media : Dr Bloomfield, how much risk is involved in not having our aircrew comply with the 14-day quarantine? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, that’s one of the issues we are looking at. At the moment, we currently don’t require aircrew to go into 14 days self-isolation. This is international aircrew from our three—Air New Zealand is flying three international routes. However, that is dependent on them complying with PPE requirements and so on. We work closely with the airlines. We are continually reviewing that and we’re engaging again with the airlines ahead of and as part of looking at the trans-Tasman bubble, because at the moment, actually, in Australia they require international aircrew to undertake that 14 days’ self-isolation. So we’re looking to see whether we can get alignment with them. Now, that may or may not mean we adopt the 14 days’ self-isolation. However, we are very focused on ensuring that there is no risk to the community. Media : Because they would be one of the greatest kind of points of risk, wouldn’t they, those aircrews that are coming in from overseas? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, they potentially would be, and that’s why we’ve agreed and provided updated guidance just last week around expectations for what they do when they’re at their turnaround points offshore, and then what is required onboard the flights and then when they get home. Media : At what point could you make that decision about whether you do want aircrew, or you provide that advice that aircrew should self-isolate or be quarantined 14 days after a flight? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, we’re actually reviewing it at the moment, and we would, again, be thinking about making sure we’ve got alignment with Australia. And, I guess, if we’re thinking about Australia, probably one of the things we’d want to put in place would be ensuring that crew who were flying international routes were not also then coming and flying the Australia - New Zealand routes. So we try and treat that route as if it was a domestic route, to all intents and purposes. Media : It does seem kind of like a glaring omission though, doesn’t it, not to have those guys self-isolating yet when we’ve been pretty tough on anyone else coming into the country? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I’m not sure it’s an omission because it’s an area that we have put a lot of thought into and there’s a lot of work and there’s very clear and strict guidance around expectations to help minimise the risk there. But, as I say, it’s actually, at the moment, under active consideration again with the airlines. Media : How are the negotiations with the private hospitals going regarding the costs of staying open during the lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I’m not involved in those negotiations. There is still some discussion and consideration happening by Ministers about funding for private hospitals, so I don’t have any further information on that just at the moment. Media : Dr Bloomfield, are you aware of the Moderna biotech firm experimental COVID- 19 vaccine? Reports out of America say they’ve had some positive results on its first human trials yesterday. What do you know about that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, so I heard those reports this morning. I think this was a very initial trial with about 10 people, and this is the very first step that is undertaken in the trial of any medication or vaccine. It’s really to look at that initial safety and to see if it does have the response that is intended. My understanding is there are about 10 of the trial vaccines, or vaccines that have been developed that are currently in the same stage, that are being trialled on people. So I think what’s great here is there is a huge international effort going on. Progress is being made, and all the eggs aren’t in one basket—there’s a range of different potential vaccines being explored. So we’re watching that with interest. Media : With this particular trial, is this something you’d be interested in following up on? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not specifically. We will be watching all the developments around the world, and, in particular, there are a number that the WHO has identified as the most promising potential vaccines, and they’re the ones we’ll be particularly interested in seeing how they are progressing. Media : On the move to alert level 1, there are a lot of regions which haven’t had an active case for quite some time. Would that be more of a consideration for moving different regions to level 1 than perhaps moving down from 3 to 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Possibly, although really, as a country, we have not had any cases in any part of the country that have just popped up over recent weeks since we were well in alert level 4, in fact. So it seems to me that there is not any evidence at the moment for us to distinguish one region from another in a move to alert level 1. Media : Today, Stats New Zealand reported that one in three Māori and Pacific people are living in damp homes, and part of that initial COVID response was to ensure people were living in warm, dry homes. So how problematic are these figures? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Oh, look, I think the evidence around damp, cold housing and its impact on health has been around for a while. In fact, some of the world-leading research was led out of the University of Otago by Philippa Howden-Chapman and colleagues there some years ago. That has underpinned investment by successive Governments over the last 15 years to support insulation of homes to help reduce dampness and make these houses warmer. This is an issue over winter, and part of it is the damp and cold, and it’s also, of course, ensuring that people are able to heat their homes so that particularly for children and older people, they’re not in these sorts of conditions which do make them more susceptible to respiratory illnesses. So yes, it is an ongoing issue, and as our housing stock is upgraded and renewed here in New Zealand, one of the key focuses is ensuring that houses are insulated properly. And as you’ll also be aware, last year there were requirements brought in on landlords to ensure— and requiring them to insulate any of their rental properties appropriately. So I think we’re making good progress on this issue, and I’m still bothered by the fact that there are damp, cold houses in New Zealand, and clearly there’s still work to go. Media : Is it almost surreal to you to look at how huge the COVID-19 response has been in terms of the entire country and the entire economy kind of focused on this, when something like excess winter mortality, which kills hundreds of people every year in New Zealand, hasn’t seemed to have the same level of response? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think all these big public health issues like housing, smoking, and, you know, we’ve had meningococcal outbreaks in the past that New Zealand has mounted very significant public health responses to, as well as our core public health activities around screening and immunisation—these have been a focus and have been invested in quite heavily over the last couple of decades. So I don’t think they’ve been neglected at all. What we have seen, of course, is a huge response and an investment to underpin that response to respond to what was a very threatening pandemic situation for New Zealand, and that response has paid off thus far. There will be a requirement for ongoing investment, but it also has brought to the fore and highlighted some of these core public health issues again that we do need to make sure we are focused on because prevention is a really important part of our overall efforts to improve population health. Media : Has New Zealand reached elimination now? You were just saying before that we haven’t had any cases that have, kind of, popped up unexpectedly in the community in weeks, and we’ve had all these days of zero cases now or, you know, one case connected to a known cluster. Is that your definition of elimination? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, yes, elimination, of course, is a sustained, you know, keep it out, stamp it out. So we’ve got our border measures are very tight, one is our international airline crew I’ve just been quizzed about, you know, are we doing enough there? So we’re looking at that. And then, of course, the wider testing, making sure we are identifying cases, good contact tracing, rapid isolation of any contacts. So that’s exactly what elimination is, but, as I’ve said earlier, it’s not a point in time, it’s a sustained effort, and we know we are going to have to sustain that effort. Media : Dr Bloomfield, given that there have been, kind of, changes to the alert levels as we’ve moved on and learnt more about the virus—the changes to level 2, in particular— what are the key differences? Can you lay out the key differences between alert level 2 and alert level 1? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I just think it’s premature to do that, actually. I think we’re still settling into alert level 2, we’ve only been in it for less than a week—a few days—and there are still dimensions of alert level 2 that Cabinet still has to decide on around gathering size. So I just don’t feel I’m in a position to comment at this stage. Media : People should really anticipate being in level 2 for, kind of, a matter of months rather than weeks—is that fair? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not at all, no. I think what people should anticipate is that we will be continuing to ask them to do the basics, which means that, then, we’re more likely to be able to keep our cases low or zero, which means we are much better placed then to consider a move to alert level 1. Media : How would you describe Jacinda Ardern in one word? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Can I use two? Media : Yep. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Prime Minister. Media : Is there anything that took you by surprise at the World Health Assembly last night, or anything that you thought was really interesting? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think, well, I was interested that they had clearly asked and had a positive response from a number of heads of State. I’ve been going to World Health Assemblies on and off since about 2004 or 2005, and it’s unusual to have a head of State address a World Health Assembly, but they had a number of heads of State, which I think emphasised the huge significance of the pandemic. But it also provided an opportunity for heads of State to be very clear about the priority their country placed on a collective effort and on supporting the work of the WHO as our global UN body for health, and I think that was a very strong theme, and it was good to see that coming through from a number of heads of State. Media : Yeah, of course you wouldn’t be expecting this review into the coronavirus outbreak to be happening anytime soon when they’re not going to be carrying it out while countries are still battling with it. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, that’s up to the director-general. He didn’t give any hints around timing, other than to say it would be undertaken as soon as possible. Media : Do you think there’s a high likelihood that New Zealand will ever see another day of double-digit new cases; and, if so, what do you think the greatest threat is? Is it returning airline staff or is it undetected transmission in the community? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, there’s still a long way to go for us to get into alert level 1. And clearly, then, as we have potentially relaxed the border, in the first instance with Australia, and that would be the most likely way that cases would be introduced into New Zealand. Again, I’m not so worried about the number. I’m worried about us identifying cases, or I’m concerned about us identifying cases quickly and having really good contact tracing and ensuring that we don’t get that community spread again. Media : Just on that community spread. At what point can we—you know, with days and days of low case numbers and easily identifiable cases, as you say, at what point are you definitely able to say that this is just not happening in the community? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I’ll just go back to the comment I made earlier that, even if at this point in time we’ve got zero or no cases that we can identify out there, that doesn’t mean we’re out of the woods. You know, elimination is a sustained game, because what we really want to do is, of course, open up our economy as much as possible. By introducing the opportunity for people to travel back into New Zealand then that increases the risk that there could be a case imported. And so what our job is is to maintain that really strong approach around keep it out, stamp it out. Media : Dr Bloomfield, we’ve seen over the past few months a significant increase in the, sort of, number of conspiracy theories surrounding the virus. From a public health perspective, and as someone who’s overseeing a system that requires a lot of people to, essentially, participate voluntarily in these, sort of, public health measures like social distancing and contact tracing and so on, does that concern you and how does it impact the job that you’re trying to do? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, it’s not surprising there are conspiracy theories. They develop around many things, and this is, sort of, the biggest thing that’s happened to most people in their lifetime. It hasn’t impacted on or affected our response. And I think the reason for this is that repeated surveys show that the vast majority of New Zealanders take it seriously, that they support what the Government is trying to achieve, and, as we saw, particularly through the lockdown and alert level 3, they are willing participants in and contributors to our collective efforts to break the chain of transmission. So therefore, my sense is that they understand both the reasons why the virus is important and also what needs to happen to address it. And so I think most New Zealanders don’t pay too much attention to any of those conspiracy theories. Thank you very much. Last modified: 20 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. There was no 1pm media conference today. There will be a 4pm post Cabinet media conference from the Prime Minister and the Director-General of Health. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Speakers at the 4pm post Cabinet media conference: Watch the media conference. Last modified: 27 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference. Last modified: 27 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The COVID-19 media conference with the Director-General of Health was held at 1pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference. Last modified: 27 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The COVID-19 media conference with the Director-General of Health was held at 1pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference. Last modified: 28 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. There was no 1pm media conference today. The Ministry of Health issued a health update by media release at 1pm. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) The Prime Minister addressed the media at 4pm, following today's Cabinet meeting. Speakers: Watch the 4pm media conference. Transcript for COVID-19 media conference — 4 pm Monday 11 May Last modified: 11 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Good afternoon, everyone, and kia ora koutou katoa. I want to start today by acknowledging the sacrifices New Zealanders have made over the 6-and-a-half weeks we have been in alert levels 4 and 3 in order to beat COVID-19. Be it those who lost loved ones and were unable to say goodbye and mourn properly. Be it the children who wrote to me about missing birthdays, and there were many of them, or the many who cancelled weddings or didn’t mark anniversaries. Be it the jobs that have been lost in the businesses that owners spent years building up only to watch it and their workforce suffer terribly. But for all of that, Kiwis from all walks of life were resolute and determined—determined that this was a war that we could eventually win, but only if we acted together. So we formed a team, and as a team we created a wall of protection for one another. Over the weekend I read a letter from a mother who spoke about what that team effort has meant to her. Her young son has compromised immunity and as a result is on constant medication. When COVID arrived in the form of a global pandemic she was terrified, but she was writing to me out of sheer relief. There may be no cure, no vaccine, for COVID yet, but there was each and every one of you—every single Kiwi who made the decision to stay home, to make sacrifices, and you did that for her boy. You did something for someone’s mother, for someone’s father, for someone’s child. You created a wall that meant the virus couldn’t reach those that it could easily take, and for that there are many people who are grateful to you, their team of 5 million. Case numbers remain low, and in the last week we’ve had two days in a row of no cases. By the end of level 4 our R value—the number of people each case goes on to infect—was 0.4. Under level 3 it has remained low. Experts tell us that if the R value stays below 1, we will eventually achieve our goal of elimination. As of today we have only 90 New Zealanders recorded as having the virus, of whom only two are in hospital. None of that has been through luck, but rather through hard work. While we have been battling this virus we’ve also built up our health system to specifically act as a defence. We can now undertake up to 12,000 tests a day—3.5 percent of the entire population has been tested, and our testing rates are amongst the highest in the world per capita, ahead of countries like Australia, the UK, Germany, Singapore, and South Korea. A lot of work has gone into building up our contact tracing capability. Dr Ayesha Verrall’s report has been instrumental in this regard, and the majority of the recommendations have been implemented. We can now contact trace 185 cases a day and have capacity to contact 10,000 people a day through a new national call centre, established since the beginning of the outbreak. Identifying new cases of the virus quickly through testing and rapid contact tracing can be 90 percent as effective as a vaccine in stopping the spread of the virus. But I cannot emphasise enough that speed is of the essence. The clock starts as soon as someone feels sick. If you have COVID, we need every minute to find the people you have been in contact with and isolate them before they are in contact with someone else. In short, if you get a sniffle or a sore throat or a cough, get advice and get a test quickly. Please don’t be a stoic Kiwi. If you do your bit, we all must keep doing ours. That means continuing our strong border controls, hand hygiene, and physical distancing, which have and will continue to be our primary wall of defence against COVID. They are tools that have worked. But we all know there is more to do. We may have won a few battles but we have not won the war. We are still recording cases most days. New information about the virus indicates it could be spread prior to a person becoming symptomatic, meaning it can be passed on by seemingly healthy people. The scientists who have advised us so well today say there is still a chance of silence spread in the future and, therefore, cases taking off again. So today I am announcing that Cabinet agrees we are ready to move into level 2, to open up the economy but to do it as safely as possible. So let me set out how we will do that. On Thursday this week retail, malls, cafes, restaurants, cinemas, and other public spaces, including playgrounds and gyms, can reopen. All will be required to have physical distancing and strict hygiene measures in place. You can begin to move around New Zealand, but space yourself out, especially if you are using public transport. And, of course, health services will restart. On Monday, 18 May, all children and young people will be able to return to school and early learning. This staging is to give parents, teachers, and education facilities time to plan. And finally, on Thursday, 21 May, bars will be able to open with all the requirements set out last week, including that seating must be provided, there must be space between tables, and there mustn’t be multiple waiters and waitresses serving a single table. We have left bars till last because they do pose the most risk, as we can see from South Korea, that recently opened up their bars only to close them again after one person created an outbreak of 40 people and caused 1,500 tests. While we have put in place measures and expectations to make all hospitality as safe as possible, these few extra days really do give us a chance to lock in the data from level 3 and feel more secure that we’re ready for this move. Overall, though, the upshot is that in 10 days’ time we will have reopened most businesses in New Zealand, and sooner than many other countries around the world. But that fits with our plan, and our plan was go hard, go early, so we can get our economy moving again sooner and so we can get the economic benefit of getting our health response right. And so far, we have. But there does have to be a new normal, and that normal means that we will be breaking out of our bubbles; we will be around more people. But we can do that and get more activity going if we balance that with keeping our distance and keeping our social gatherings small for now. Our strength so far has been our willingness to learn about this virus and change the way that we behave to beat it, and we’ve learnt a lot, especially from our clusters. If you follow their origin, you’ll know that they are slice of Kiwi life. They have started at wedding receptions, stag dos, a conference in Queenstown that included drinks and socialising, a bar in Matamata. There is a theme: when we come together to socialise in large numbers with one another, there is risk. The best insurance policy we have for that risk is to reduce the size of our socialising for now, and that is what the Director-General of Health has recommended that we do for now. Parties, big social events, or anything designed to be for mixing and mingling won’t be allowed to happen for groups that are larger than 10. Gatherings at home need to be capped at 10. Church and religious events, weddings, funerals, stag dos—all limited to 10 for now. And if you’re wanting to head to a restaurant or a bar, they won’t be able to take group bookings for larger than 10. This, alongside social distancing, is our insurance policy. Why 10? Simple. If something goes wrong with a group of 10, that is much easier to contain, much easier to contact trace, much less likely that if something goes wrong, the whole country will have to experience more restrictions. That doesn‘t mean that you won’t see larger gatherings of people around you. People, for instance, will be at the movies, but they’ll all be spaced out. They’ll be watching sports, but they will be spaced out. People might go to a show, but they will be spaced out. You’ll see bars and restaurants open, but they, again, will be required to have people seated and spaced out. We have done what we can to prioritise opening up businesses but just alter the way that we work within them for the next wee while. This strikes a balance between getting the economy moving but also making sure we have got the next stage right. I know that many New Zealanders are looking forward to catching up with friends and family, and from this Thursday you can. But for now, as I’ve said, it just needs to be small. This is a transition out of our bubbles, where you can see people you haven’t seen in a while; you just can’t do it all at once. I should add, though, a particular note, because I have been asked this a few times: if you have a family that is larger than 10, we’re not suggesting you throw anyone out of the house. We are being pragmatic. We just don’t want you to have a large gathering yet. This is also one of the reasons that we have decided to allow travel again, as we signalled last week, because it isn’t so much the movement around the country that is an issue; it’s actually what people do when they get there that matters. So go and see your mum, just don’t turn it into a massive family reunion while you’re at it. Instead, maybe see your mum, visit a local tourism site, or support a local business. I do want to acknowledge we will be looking at these restrictions—these remaining restrictions—again in just two weeks’ time. And if our numbers continue to look good, the number of people you can socialise with and hold events with will grow, and I do want to signal that. If our numbers are still looking good, we will begin to grow those numbers. Last Thursday, when announcing what level 2 looks like, I said the key rule is to play it safe—that we all need to take individual responsibility for our actions and continue to behave like the virus is still amongst us, especially when in public and around people that you don’t know. At level 4 and level 3, we had success because staying home meant we broke the chain of transmission. We simply weren’t in contact with one another to spread the virus. At level 2, we are now out and about again. Just about all parts of the economy are opening up again. What we have balanced in these decisions is how we can do that— get those restaurants open, malls open, shops open—but how we can keep them open. That’s why we’re asking you all to be incredibly careful as we get back to a new, safer normal. None of us can assume COVID isn’t with us. So with that in mind, a reminder of the golden rules of level 2: keep your distance from other people when you’re out in public, including on transport. If you’re sick, stay home— don’t go to work or school; don’t socialise. This should be a really low bar. If you have symptoms of cold or flu, call your doctor or Healthline immediately and get tested. Wash your hands, wash your hands, wash your hands, and do it properly. Don’t get together socially or mix and mingle with more than 10 people at once, and keep a track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Your efforts, New Zealand, have got us to this place, ahead of most of the world, and without the carnage that COVID has inflicted in many other places, but there are risks ahead, so please be vigilant at level 2. Irresponsible behaviour will take us backwards. Getting to this position early has saved jobs and businesses, but there is a long road ahead to full recovery, and things will continue to be very, very tough before they get better. We are looking to provide more support for the businesses most affected, and to do that soon. This week the Government will release our Budget—our plan to respond to the economic toll the virus has caused. It will be, however, one of many steps that we take in our efforts to rebuild together. In fact, that is what the Budget is called: “Rebuilding Together”. At its heart is the simple idea that our team of 5 million has united to beat the virus and must keep doing so, and now, together, we can also unite to build our economy, and that there is an opportunity to build back even better, addressing issues like inequality or run-down infrastructure and challenges to our environment. The finance minister will have much, much more to say on that on Thursday. So for now, we are in level 3 for just two more days. From Thursday, when you wake up, play it safe. Remember that wall of defence we built together as a team now rests with every one of us. So when you’re out and about, acknowledge your fellow teammates, enjoy being out more and seeing others, keep it small, keep your distance, and be kind. The director-general and I are both happy to take questions. Media: Prime Minister, how do you differentiate between a restaurant and a bar, and do you recognise that this will be a massive kick in the guts to struggling bar owners? PM: Actually, we’ve worked with the hospitality association, because you’re right to point out that is an issue that may have caused problems with definition. So quite simply, we’re using the guidance that’s set out through the Easter Sunday / Anzac legislation. It, essentially, means if the primary purpose is for dining, you can open; if the primary purpose is for drinking, then there’s that delay. That does mean pubs who provide meals and so on will be able to open. It is a really pragmatic way to strike that balance between getting those businesses open as soon as we can but also balancing the risk that still exists. We don’t want to be South Korea—open our bars only to close them again. Media: There are a lot of people watching this who will feel like we’ve got a whole lot more freedom now. How will you police that 10 or fewer people in the homes? Because this is literally going into people’s homes. PM: Yeah, and look, in the same way we have—really, in level 3 and level 4, we’ve had the same expectation that people not have large gatherings in their home, and we continue to have that expectation. This is where we are really saying there’s a lot of personal responsibility. Think about the role that you’re playing in your community and for New Zealand. No one wants to go backwards, and so that’s up to all of us. There will, however, still be the ability to enforce. If a large group of students or others—I don’t want to just prey upon students here—but a large group of people get together for a party, there will be the ability to enforce this. Media: Can you give us a few more details on staggering, because you’ve talked about two weeks, you’ll reassess. Will, then, you maybe look to add another 10, or will that progress more quickly? PM: Yeah, I would anticipate that it would progress more quickly. I do want to leave that flexibility to the director-general, but he’s already been considering that staging already, but I see there’s been larger than that in. But, ultimately, it will depend on our numbers. Director-General? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, thanks Prime Minister, and kia ora koutou katoa. So if you look at Australia, they’ve gone for, actually, longer periods, but they’ve gone, sort of, 10 to 20 to 50 to 100. As the Prime Minister said, I think we’ll be looking to open up more quickly if possible, but it will very much depend on what we’re seeing in a couple of weeks’ time, and then two weeks beyond that as well—understanding the end point that Cabinet’s already agreed is an upper limit of 100. Media: And no direction on masks. So is that something you’ve decided against, for example, for public transport as a mandatory requirement? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So we’re not requiring masks on public transport. The updated evidence review, you’ve seen, and there is updated advice around PPE, including mask use for health workers, for some workers in very specific settings outside of health, and also for the general public. For the general public, what I can say is we’re neither recommending nor requiring masks; however, if you do choose to use a mask, that’s fine, and just make sure you know how to use it safely so that you reduce the risk to yourself and others. Media: Even though evidence from other jurisdictions—you know, they’re using masks as a matter of course. That’s not something the New Zealand Government thinks is, on the evidence, required—or is it supply? Are there any other issues dictating that? PM: Evidence. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: It’s not a supply issue; it’s an evidence issue. And what I would say is the evidence is very much in the balance, and that’s why you will find various learned commentators reaching different positions on this very issue. That doesn’t mean that’s our  final position, and we will keep watching, but at the moment we’re not requiring or recommending that the general public use masks. PM: A surgical mask—it will be surprising to many to learn a surgical mask, for instance, should be changed up to three times an hour, and, of course, when you’re changing it, you need to be very careful that you’re not making any contact with the mask and, ultimately, that you’re not allowing it to become damp through the entire period you’re wearing it. So making sure that it’s worn properly I think is one of the reasons the evidence really can often fall on either side when you’re asking those outside of the health profession to wear them. Media: Just to be clear, the limit of 10—does that take into account people inside that bubble already? So if the household has eight people, two more people— PM: So, ultimately, to keep it nice and simple, we’re saying don’t let your gatherings be larger than 10. If someone wants to catch up with a play date for their kids, then often it might be easier just to take them out, meet up with a friend in the park. We are trying to keep this nice and simple, which is why we’ve said let’s limit those social gatherings to 10. Media: What did you make of NZME today giving the Government, basically, a deadline of the end of May to create new legislation to allow NZME and Stuff to merge? PM: Interesting, given it’s a commercially sensitive issue and not one that I’m going to comment on. Media: Prime Minister, even after laying out last week what level 2 would look like, there was perhaps a wilful misapprehension on the part of some people that we had actually moved to level 2. When we shift down, when we shift through the levels, does it become harder to police? PM: Look, well, one of the things I’m very clear on is that as we give over more freedom, as we open things up further—and we are—then obviously there is a degree to which we are asking people to take responsibility for themselves out in that environment. We continue, though, to make really balanced decisions. We want the economy to be opened up, we want people back in work, but to do that safely we’re asking people just to change their behaviour when they’re out and about, and that is what we’re relying on here. But I have faith in New Zealanders. Media: Talking to people today, a lot of people are quite nervous about being back out in public en masse and around other people. Do you share that reticence? PM: I think that’s why—we’ve actually taken that into account. Ultimately, what we’re trying to do is for any environment where there is risk, we’ve set guidelines to mitigate that risk. So for areas of hospitality, we’ve worked with them to make those environments safe for people to go into, because, ultimately, it won’t be great for their business if they can’t attract people into a safe space. So that’s what we’ve done. We’re opening the economy safely and then asking people just to follow the rules and the guidelines. Media: Dr Bloomfield, do you think those people are right to be nervous? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Oh, I understand why people are nervous. And one of the things that’s been interesting is as we’ve moved down the levels, it has felt to people like there are loads of people out there and they must be not complying with what the parameters are in that level, but, actually, that’s not my observation. Yes, it comes as a surprise because you suddenly see so many people around or so many more cars on the road, but, actually, the vast majority of people I’m seeing are clearly aware of what is expected of them and are putting in a lot of effort, and businesses are putting in a lot of effort, to help maintain the physical distancing and the expectations on them, and I have a strong sense that we will see that as we move to alert level 2. Media: Prime Minister, just on this maximum number of 10. Correct me if I’m wrong. Is what you’re saying that you couldn’t have like a wedding or a birthday or something that  would be more than 10 people, but you could take a group of up to 100 people to a restaurant and do something similar? PM: Fair question. So that’s where we’ve been really clear: the 10 is utterly consistent. If you want to go out to a restaurant or bar, they can’t take a group booking of more than 10 either. You can’t book out an entire restaurant for your entire party—it can only be 10. Media: But you could have multiple bookings of tables for a group of people that wanted to have a party? PM: No, you cannot. No. Ultimately, it is just if you are socialising with a group of your friends, you have to keep it to 10. The restaurant, however, can be open, catering for other patrons that are not part of your group, because, ultimately, people don’t go to restaurants to continue to socialise with strangers. They’re there with the group they’ve gone with, and that group needs to be limited at 10. Media: Following up on that, for people planning weddings, for example—so when should they start getting their diaries out again? PM: So what we’re doing, obviously, at alert level 2 is increasing over time, if we continue to see those numbers hold, the number of people that can socialise with one another. But for now I imagine most people want certainty, and the best way to have certainty is just to hold off that planning for a while. Media: [Inaudible] PM: Oh, we’ve said the same. Again, drawing distinctions between church services— where people do come for fellowship, they do come for community, and they do come to socialise with one another. And so that is why we’ve kept it consistent: 10. But it is for now. We’re saying two weeks, we’ll review again and look to increase, and that is consistent with what the likes of Australia and other places are doing. We did really give hard consideration to this, particularly because we have been so moved by the struggle for families with funerals and tangi, but people come together for funerals and tangi to physically comfort one another, and so this is an area where we are hoping to be able to move soon, but for now we’ve opted for the safety of 10 and the consistency of 10. Media: Because people would argue, with, like, a Sunday church service, though—not a funeral or a tangi—that you could have the same social distancing that you have at the movies. PM: Yes. I’ve actually had people from different community groups argue with me that they consider that it should be treated in the same way—that they do come together for fellowship, for community, to socialise with one another, and people who haven’t seen each other properly for seven weeks, that’s a very natural inclination. So we’ve tried to be consistent there with the way we’ve rolled it out. I understand it’s tough, but I’m hoping it won’t be for long. Media: Is Thursday the day for businesses that might require PPE, like hairdressers and beauticians, and could you also just clarify what’s happening with sport? PM: Yes, it is. All of that is 11.59 p.m. on Wednesday, as we’ve used that deadline for everything. So, essentially, it’s everything that we’ve outlined in level 2, with the exceptions that I just set out in my statement, which is, obviously, those bars or those who tend to focus as their primary purpose on providing alcohol—that’s from the 21st . Some of the details on sport—obviously, we’re continuing to work through with community sport in particular, but that’s guidance that’s being developed at the moment. Media: Just on one point you just touched on—pubs that provide meals. You’ve said that they will be able to open from Thursday— PM: Well, if they currently open under those guidelines. Media: But will they be able to serve alcohol? PM: Yes. Yep, so in the same way that we operate under—those who are familiar with Easter trading, Anzac trading. They can provide alcohol. Media: So a group of friends can visit a pub under the guise of getting a meal but have some drinks? PM: So the Hospitality Association knows well the way these provisions work, and that’s why we chose them. They’re a way that we could start to stagger those businesses who are primarily focused on food, and then leave a little bit later some of that higher risk, which is those that tend to be primarily focused on alcohol. It’s something that the hospitality industry is very familiar with, those provisions, and so it makes it easier for them to implement them. Media: Prime Minister, did you endorse a gag order placed by your office on your Ministers last Friday, after the release of documents, and why doesn’t your office trust your Ministers? PM: Well, I wouldn’t characterise it as that, keeping in mind, of course, that the discussion we’re having here is over the release of over 300 documents. The whole purpose, of course, was to provide them transparently and then be available to answer questions on them, as I am, as Dr Clark has been, and I believe Minister Shaw has also been in the public domain since Friday on those documents. The one thing I will say is I absolutely hear the feedback people have given around signalling earlier when they’re coming. I know I gave some references to them being released soon, without specific dates. So we’ll look to do that in the future, and we’ll also look to make sure that they’re released in the morning, whatever the given day of the week is, because I know that that’s caused a bit of angst for people as well. Media: Do you think it hits your reputation as a transparent Government? PM: Well, I don’t know that anyone would accuse me of not having been available, given how available I seek to make myself, and nor would I believe that to be the case either. But I will say it’s not the language I would’ve used in an email, but you’d expect that I don’t craft all of the emails sent out by people who work in my team. Media: In crowded schools, physical distancing won’t always be possible. How should schools mitigate that? PM: Yeah, and, look, that’s something from the very beginning we have acknowledged, and not had an expectation that schools and children won’t be able to be children. So what we’ve done is work alongside the education sector to make sure that there are practices in place, hygiene practices, that help support a safe environment. Ultimately, we wouldn’t move to be having children going back to school if we didn’t believe it was safe, and I absolutely appreciate that. I think about this from my perspective and want to make sure that we can give that assurance to other parents too. Media: And what about over-70s, vulnerable people, rest home visits, hospital visits— Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So there’s updated advice for people over 70 or vulnerable people, and it will be—particularly around employment for those people—a conversation with their employer to look at ways that any risk can be reduced for them. But it is a decision between them and their employer. We certainly would encourage those people to be going out and doing things, and doing so safely. As I said last week, actually, it’s beholden to all of us to actually keep those people safe via ensuring we are complying with physical distancing and other behaviours. Media: And rest home visits? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Rest home visits, yes, that’s—the visiting policy for hospitals and rest homes is being updated. It will be up to individual rest homes. But you’ll also be aware that these are clearly high-risk environments, and we do need to keep the residents  in there safe, so any visiting will have very strict boundaries around it still, even in alert level 2. Media: What’s the situation with the discussions around finding an agreement between landlords and tenants, or a code of conduct? Because there’s some people saying that New Zealand First is blocking attempts by the Government in Cabinet to come to a solution. PM: No. No, it is still an issue that we are working through, but as you would expect, one of the things that we’re mindful of, of course, is that the code of conduct in Australia and, equally, what we would want to reflect here in New Zealand as well, is a way that we can fairly share the burden of COVID. Whilst we predominantly think of—and this will predominantly be the case—it being those who are the tenants who are in the most vulnerable situation, there will be some scenarios where those who are the tenants actually may have a stronger fiscal position than, for instance, the commercial landholder. So what we need to do is make sure that we’re covering off those circumstances. Equally, the Australian code of conduct hadn’t yet been embedded into law when it was announced. We, of course, are looking to work up the proposal and the legislative framework at the same time. So it’s just taking a little bit of time to work those issues through. Media: Just to follow up on New Zealand First, is New Zealand First blocking the Government from using section 64 of the Social Security Act to provide benefits to migrants who are stranded here? PM: No. No, all of the issues that we work through, we work through on a consensus basis. We all agree that we have people the likes of whom in Queenstown are currently in a very difficult situation, which is why as a Government we agreed tens of millions of dollars in support to allow emergency support for both accommodation and food to be provided to those individuals. Media: But are you considering using that part of the Act to give benefits to migrants? PM: As I’ve said a few times, at the moment, we’ve found a way to provide the same support that would otherwise go to those groups without having to make legal changes to our social development regulations, and that includes actually being able to cover the costs of even accommodation. Media: Can I ask for clarification on two areas. One, sports clubs: presumably golf, hunting, whatever, you can play the sport but you can’t have the social gathering element afterwards. And also, secondly— PM: Not more than 10. Media: No more than 10—so you can go out, you can play, you can do your thing, but don’t have the social after? PM: Yep. Media: And, just in terms of boarding schools, obviously, many more than 10 people living— PM: And, again, we expect all of those things have been worked through directly with the Ministry of Education and with those who are in boarding environments, tertiary institutions, and the like. They’ve been working hard very specifically on the requirements of how they can make those facilities work safely for themselves and their students. There are some who are already still in boarding housing, for instance, and have been through lockdown level 4 and level 3. Media: But are you saying that there would need to be a physical distancing element? Because dorms, for example—what, half could come back but the other half couldn’t? PM: Well, what I’m saying is that we’re specifically working through that guidance, and without me having looked at the immediate detail that has been negotiated between the  schools, the ministry, and the Ministry of Health, I wouldn’t want to speak in too much detail on that. Media: You said appropriate PPE will need to be worn at hairdressers and beauticians. What does that mean exactly? PM: Dr Bloomfield? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, so the advice we’ve given is particularly around masks, and our updated advice will be on our website, and also about our recommendations around where that can be accessed if there’s any trouble with getting access to masks. PM: Did you have anything further on that? Media: Not on that, but on the bars and restaurants, what kind of penalties will there be for breaking those rules? Because if you break Easter trading rules, for example, you can face loss of licence for the premises. Is that the case under these restrictions? PM: We’re using closure here. You’ll be closed. And we’ll keep that consistent, because we’d want the consistent application for the way that we’re dealing with whether or not you’re keeping people separated, and so on. So far, it’s been closure. What I’d need to check is just whether or not that will be any different in the first week, given we’re applying a different set of legislation. Media: What are you reflections on the fact that New Zealand is opening up its economy sooner than Australia, given that when we were in the level 4 lockdown, some people pointed to Australia’s more relaxed rules to suggest that New Zealand’s restrictions were over the top? PM: Our focus has always been on our own response—doing what is best for New Zealand’s health and New Zealand’s economy. We went hard and we went early. We got control of the virus, and now we’re in a position where we can safely step out of those controls and open our economy back up. It doesn’t mean that we don’t have a new, safer way of operating, though; we do, and we’re expecting everyone to apply those tools as our first line of defence: keep your distance, keep up the hygiene, keep your gathering small. That, though, means we can get business back, and so I think that is a small price to pay to keep people in jobs and to keep our economy ticking over. Media: What do you make of the situation in the Manurewa electorate in which Louisa Wall has threatened to sue the party? PM: Ultimately, we have processes that are for the party. That includes the process they have of running selections, local electorates running their own selection processes. Generally, they don’t tend to interest the rest of New Zealand but usually are confined to the Labour Party and the local electorate. So those processes need to run their course. I’m not attempting to intervene in that. Media: Dr Bloomfield, Waitakere—when is the urgent PPE review due? And is there any indication it’ll show failure? And also, after the outbreak, staff were stood down, tested, and work bubbles introduced. Have any other work bubbles been introduced in other DHBs? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, thanks. So the review was actually of the whole situation that happened there, and one of the reasons that the CE asked for that review to be done was because there had been very good use of PPE, and so they were trying to look and understand what had happened there—whether it was some environmental contamination. My understanding is that review was due to be completed at the end of last week. I haven’t seen the outcome and report from that yet, but I will look at that with interest, because each of these reviews is undertaken to help improve not just our understanding but what we need to change to make sure these situations are not repeated. I’m not certain if other DHBs have introduced the bubble-type arrangement, but what I am certain is that once that review is completed, the recommendations will be circulated to all district health boards and we will update our national advice on the basis of what their findings are. Media: Are DHBs going to test nurses and staff before they return to work? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, we are recommending that happens routinely. In fact, two of the confirmed cases today were a result of that testing, and, interestingly, both nurses were non-symptomatic and hadn’t had any symptoms; they had been in isolation. So we had already moved to a policy of routinely testing staff before they returned to work in healthcare or aged residential care settings. I think that reinforces the importance of doing that. What we’re not sure is whether that means they are infectious, particularly if they are not symptomatic. But I think this is something that everyone around the world is still trying to understand better. They will obviously remain stood down and then be retested. Media: Can you talk about what might trigger a return back to level 3 and whether that might be applied regionally? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I’ll talk to the first bit, and I think the Prime Minister may want to comment as well. We will be looking, a bit like we have with the steps down, at not just numbers of cases but where they are happening, and, of course, our ability to get any cases and any outbreaks that might be occurring under control very quickly. And part of those controls may include some regional measures that are different for regions to help get what I call that ring-fence around an outbreak. So that may mean that there are measures in place in some locations or regions that are, in a sense, more restrictive than maybe around the rest of the country, until we’re confident we’ve got an outbreak under control. Media: Prime Minister, did Nine executives tell your Government that Stuff would shut at the end of May, if some kind of deal with NZME wasn’t reached? I know you’re going to say “commercial sensitivity”, but are you prepared to let Stuff fall over? PM: Oh, again, I think there’s a lot of assumptions built into that question. Again, there’s commercial sensitivity here, and there may well be more than one group that’s involved in this scenario. So it’s not for me to enter into any dialogue on that any further. Media: Prime Minister, the address at the NZX this morning, though—that was deliberately addressed to you and the Government. That was an address to you. So how do you feel about the NZX being used in that way, to try and force your hand? PM: Look, again, I think I’ve already given my response on that. Media: With the 10-person limit, do you think that’s going to have an effect on tourism operators, or is that— PM: No, I don’t believe it should. I mean, ultimately, what’s most important to them is the ability for people to be able to travel regionally. And what we’ve balanced here is, look, let’s open up that regional travel, but let’s apply the ongoing restrictions to the thing that actually creates risk, and that’s what people are doing together. So that, for instance, does enable a family, for instance, to take a small break away to some other part of the country and to engage in some tourism activity. The only thing it’s stopping is them being involved in a large party while they are there. So, no, I don’t think it should stop that. Keeping in mind, though, of course, this is what we’re doing for the next two weeks. We will continue— all going to plan—to see that opening up. Media: Dr Bloomfield, just a question about our corrections facilities. How many cases are you aware of in our prisons at the moment? We’ve heard that an Auckland women’s inmate and a corrections officer have tested positive to COVID-19. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So there are no cases inside our corrections facilities, and I’ve been working very closely with my counterpart at corrections since very early in this, and, actually, we moved very quickly, because we could see what was happening overseas, to ensure that anyone either working or inside a corrections facility was kept safe. One of our confirmed cases is someone who works for corrections, but not in direct contact with prisoners inside the facility, and it was from some time ago. So that person was already in isolation and it was transmission inside the family. So I think we’ve done very well, actually, and corrections have done very well to keep people inside their facilities safe. Media: So how will visiting rights be affected at level 2? Will it be similar to rest homes, where it’s up to the corrections facility to decide on that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I spoke again to my counterpart at corrections just a few days ago about this, and I know his intention is to enable, as quickly as possible, prisoners who have access to visiting rights—that, you know, are their rights, but to do so in a safe way. And so I think you should look to see—and they will, I’m sure, publish what their national position will be on visiting arrangements under alert level 2. Media: Dr Bloomfield, are you comfortable where things have landed in terms of level 2, because while you’ve got the, sort of, safe control around strangers in restaurants and bars and things, you’ve also got sports clubs and 30 guys on a rugby field playing together. So how do you balance that and where do you land on, sort of, how safe it is? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, you’re right. It is a balance. We’re coming into alert level 2 in a very good position because of our hard-won gains that we have made under alert levels 4 and 3. So our advice was clear that we’re confident we’re in a position to move to alert level 2. The parameters have been put around it—in particular, the group size of 10 I think will help where we had advised that, and that has been taken up. And, in fact, there was only one point of difference from our advice and where Cabinet landed, and that was just we had recommended keeping bars closed for a further two weeks, and Cabinet has settled on one week. PM: Yeah. And it’ll just help to give a little bit of context to that. Our view is that if we see any spike in cases—if we see any data that demonstrates to us that there is any risk— then, of course, we have an ability to act on that. But, equally, at the same time, we have put in place measures that we believe will mitigate some of the risks that were raised by Dr Bloomfield. And so we feel we’ve landed in a place that balances out all of those issues, ultimately. Media: At level 2, is it prime ministerial business as usual? Will you continue to move around the country, or resume moving around the country, and will you move back to Auckland? PM: Yeah. I actually—just for the pure logistics of the post-Budget period—haven’t got any plans to move immediately, but my intention is to act in the exact same way that I have encouraged other New Zealanders to. That’s what I’ve done all the way through, and that’s what I’ll do at alert level 2. So that means that I’ll be applying the same restrictions, but I’ll also be looking to move around a bit more as well. Media: What are you looking forward to about level 2? Are you looking forward to a prime ministerial beer or a haircut or a workout? PM: Oh, I’m actually really looking forward to giving my sister a hug. I haven’t seen her in a couple of months because I haven’t been home. So that’ll be nice. Media: Why did you decide not to take the advice to close bars for an extra two weeks? PM: Sorry, what was that? Media: Why did you not take the advice of the director-general to keep bars closed for a further two weeks? PM: Yeah, we agreed that, actually, we are in a position to move into alert level 2 and we should do that in the safest way possible. So we struck a balance between opening up but actually putting in a delay of a week, because it is one of the more riskier things that we’ll be doing. But we do have considerable safeguards. We’re requiring everyone to be seated, we’re requiring everyone to be separated, and we’re requiring that there’s not more than one waiter or waitress serving a table. And, actually, Dr Bloomfield believes that those who [Inaudible] as well, that would considerably reduce the risk. Media: And you’ve called level 2 our safe and normal. How long do you think we are going to be in that safe and normal before we can go back to proper normal? PM: Well, at the moment, obviously, we’ve said after two weeks we’ll look again at the number of people that are able to gather together socially. And as long as we’re making progress, we’ll keep opening up, but we’ll always base all our decisions on evidence. At the moment, though, what we’ve been guided by is how do we open up the economy but in the safest way possible, and, actually, where the restrictions now are primarily forming is on us and our social lives, but that does lessen the impact that we would otherwise feel on business. Media: [Inaudible] Given that you have asked bars to do, effectively, the same as what restaurants have to do, with the seating and single server, why are they being discriminated against? PM: Again, we still have to take into account primarily why people visit them. We are asking people to change their behaviour entirely when they go, though. But you will have heard that, actually, Health had a different suggestion, which is push it out even further. Ultimately, we believe we reached a pragmatic decision, one that balanced off the issue you’ve raised—that we have put in controls to try and make it safer, with the suggestion of a further delay—and we struck down the middle with just an extra one week. That does give us time to lock in that extra data of alert level 3, which is one of the things that I have heard—the call from some epidemiologists saying, look, let’s just make sure we’ve got all the data and we are moving safely. Media: Quite a few bars, that will mean closure—that will be too long for them. PM: I’ve also signalled—and I will say it again—that we will be looking to provide more support to business, and that will be something we’ll be announcing soon. But that, of course, is reflective of the fact that there will be some businesses who will take a while to gear up, even when we start to move into alert level 2. Media: Prime Minister, what’s the Government’s view on whether the Commerce Act should be changed or whether the Commerce Commission should be directed or advised to allow a merger of NZME and Stuff? PM: Again, I worry that I can’t speculate on that question without getting dangerously close to some of the detail of the particular context in which it’s being asked, Bernard. So, again, I do need to just recall that this is a commercially sensitive negotiation and issue, and I need to let it play out between the parties involved. I’m just going to take a few more. Who hasn’t had many? I’ll come over—Thomas. Media: Just a follow-on from Jenna’s question. When the review is on the table, it sounds like increasing the numbers of people at mass gatherings is on the table, but today, obviously, a wholesale move to level 2 is on the table. So is that an indication that we are probably going to spend longer in level 2 than we have been spending in levels 4 and 3? Is this a longer period that we should get used to? PM: Not necessarily. It all depends on what happens with our case numbers. The goal has always been as safely as possible to move back to some form of normality as soon as possible. So we haven’t put a final number on level 2, but if we are able to sustain low and no cases, then that will mean that we are further and further towards our goal—our ongoing goal—of elimination and that we’ll be able to further open up. There will be some things that will be with us regardless, and I do need to point out that even if we have low and no numbers, we will still be looking at border restrictions and we will still, of course, be encouraging everyone to practise those hygiene measures that will keep all of us safe. Media: So the message is, you know, if this goes to plan, if it works, then level 1 could be on the table in a few weeks’ time as well? PM: I don’t want to put a number on it. The message is keep it up and we can keep moving. If we slacken up, then we might move in the wrong direction. OK, I’ll take the last two questions. Media: Can an election take place at alert level 2? PM: Yes. Media: New Zealand’s asymptomatic cases [Inaudible] have been a far lower proportion than we’ve seen overseas. Here, around 2 or 3 percent of our cases have been asymptomatic, whereas overseas it’s been as high as 43 or 50 percent. Why do you think that is? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So just to clarify— PM: Do you mean asymptomatic or community? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Do you mean community? Media: Asymptomatic cases, yeah. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I don’t think we’ve put a figure on it; however, what has become apparent in our testing recently, recording—we’ve actually done over 65,000 tests since we moved into alert level 3, and a lot of those have been in asymptomatic people. We’ve only found a small handful of those that are positive, and all either related to existing clusters or we could track them back to overseas travel. They’ve been quite late presentations; again, it’s not clear what the positive test means in terms of whether they’re infective. But I think our understanding of asymptomatic infection, and therefore the possibility of transmission, is still emerging, and this is one of the very reasons why we need to keep a high level of vigilance in alert level 2. One of the good things is we have had a long period under 4 and 3 for those asymptomatic—if they are there—infections to present, and we’ve done the wide community testing, and we haven’t found pockets of it out there that we weren’t expecting. So that’s reassuring, but, again, maintaining the vigilance. PM: OK. Thank you very much, everyone. Last modified: 12 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Kia ora koutou katoa, and welcome to this afternoon’s briefing. I’m pleased to report that today there are no new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. So our total number of cases remains at 1,153—that’s confirmed cases—and the total confirmed and probable at 1,503. Another five cases have been categorised as recovered, and that then brings the total to 1,452, which is 97 percent of all cases. There are no additional deaths to report, and today there is just one person in hospital, still in Middlemore Hospital and not requiring intensive care. Yesterday, our labs processed 6,113 tests. Our grand total now is 244,838 completed. I want to give a reminder today about flu vaccines and to encourage Kiwis to get their vaccine, especially as the weather noticeably starts to get a bit colder. You’ll recall that this year we had ordered a record number of 1.76 million vaccines of the Southern Hemisphere vaccine, and that’s now been open for everyone to be able to get vaccinated for the last 2½ weeks. We are still asking our immunisation providers, though, to just keep back some of that vaccine for our high-needs groups, who may need it over coming months—for example, pregnant women. We have also, I’m pleased to say, secured with PHARMAC an extra 360,000 doses of the Northern Hemisphere vaccine which were available. Those have arrived in the country. They have passed through the regulatory process and have been approved for use in healthy people aged three to 64. Now, this vaccine is not quite the same four components as the Southern Hemisphere vaccine. It’s an absolute match for two of the four components, provides some partial protection for a third, and the other strain of virus that is in it is not a match for the existing Southern Hemisphere vaccine. However, the advice has been very clear from our experts: using this vaccine would afford useful protection to Kiwis. And that will now be available to be used once the supplies of our Southern Hemisphere vaccine have been all given to people. So that vaccine, as I say, is available and for order from this week, and I would encourage Kiwis again to go out and get the flu jab. And that will mean we’ll have a total of around 2.1 million doses of flu vaccine available to be used this winter. It is of much more value in people’s arms than it is sitting on the shelves; so please do go out and get your flu jab. Just a comment on funerals and tangihanga: since we moved to alert level 2, just over a week ago, funeral directors have been able to register funerals and tangihanga to enable groups of up to 50 to participate if they can confirm that they have got public health precautions in place, and I’m pleased to say that, since the start of alert level 2, around 650 funerals and tangihanga have been registered. Some of these will relate to the same event, because there may be a registration for a service at a church and also one at a crematorium, but really pleased to see that that system has been working very well and enabling families and friends to get together and grieve for lost family members. An update on the New Zealand COVID Tracer app: we continue to be encouraged by the number of Kiwis who have registered—as at midday today, 236,000 registrations for the app. So if people haven’t downloaded it, I continue to encourage you to do so. It will help us in our overall efforts to contact you quickly if we need to—so noting that identifying, tracing, and isolating contacts quickly is a very key part of our overall effort. Businesses are going through the process of getting their QR code, and to date 6,500 QR codes have been generated by businesses. I understand yesterday some people with some phone models had trouble—well, some people had trouble locating the app in the Google Play store. We’ve worked with Google to make sure it is much more obvious and can be found more easily. And also there were some phone users who had trouble either downloading the app or registering. We’ve already done updates to try and fix any bugs that were there, and this is something that, of course, happens when a new app is made available. We did some user testing beforehand but, of course, the app wasn’t tried on every single model of phone, but we are addressing those issues as they arise. And also today we have published draft standards and the related specifications for developers of other apps, who will then, if they use those standards and specifications, be able to have their app use that single New Zealand Business Number - related QR code. So there will be only, then, a need for businesses or premises to display that single QR code that is related to the unique New Zealand Business Number. And just to confirm, a word on privacy: the personal information that people provide when they register with the app is held only in the Ministry of Health, only for contact tracing, and any other data is held only on your phone, and you release it if requested, and if you wish to, if you are contacted. On a final note, as you’ll be aware, bars and pubs reopen today under alert level 2—mind you, while we remain in alert level 2, they do so under the same requirements that are already in place for hospitality venues. That is to protect everybody’s health and make sure we are not compromising the gains we have already made with COVID-19. So that includes, of course, limiting physical interaction between patrons from different groups and, of course, between staff and customers. It will be a great chance to catch up with a friend and support your local business. This may not, however, be the time to publicly try out any new dance moves you have learnt over the lockdown. So do have fun if you’re heading out to a bar or a pub in coming days, but do support the staff by ensuring that you do so from your seat and within your small group. And just finally, a word on the contact details that you will be or are already being asked to provide when you visit a hospitality venue: please ensure you give the correct details. The whole purpose of this is to ensure that you can be contacted to protect your health and, of course, the health of your family and the wider community, should it be necessary. I’m open to questions. Media : How many people have downloaded the app since yesterday? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, there are 236,000 registrations total, and I think when I spoke yesterday it was around 90,000, so it’s about another 146,000, if my maths is correct. Media : How many people do you want to be using the app for it to be really successful? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : As many as possible. And just a word on that, I know there’s been some articles about the limited functionality of the app at the moment, and I agree. However, even by registering—even by registering—that means that we have up-to-date contact details for people who have registered that we can use. So that is of benefit to every individual who has already downloaded the app. The QR code functionality will be of increasing value, and, of course, we are adding further functionality over coming weeks to make sure that the app is of even more value to individuals but also to businesses, which will mean then they won’t need to continue to record people’s details. Media : There’s half a million businesses in New Zealand. Only 6,000 have actually got those QR codes. Are you disappointed by the take-up? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not as yet, no. I think it’s good progress. There is a bit of a process they need to go through. Of course, not all businesses are open at the moment, but I’ll just equally encourage businesses to go through that process, download the QR code and display it, and that will help both you and other Kiwis. Media : Why did you decide to design your own bespoke solution for this app, and did you consider acquiring any existing apps, buying the rights wholesale for them or buying the companies associated with them? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes. We didn’t consider buying any companies. However, we did consider the full range of options here, and we were looking to see what other countries were doing, and I can say that we had many, many offers of solutions. However, we did decide to go down the route of developing our own app because then we could be confident about what information was being collected, what was being done with that information, and, of course, it allowed us to then develop and add further functionalities once people had downloaded that app. And I know there’s also been some commentary that it’s taken a long time. I dare say, when a Government agency develops an app, it is not the same as a private app provider. We have to go through a very thorough process, of course, particularly around privacy issues, ensuring it links with other Government priorities and approaches, and, of course, in this case, getting Cabinet approval to go ahead with an app like this, which was very important. So I think it’s a good solution, and it will be even more useful as we go. Media : And it only works with some versions of Android and some versions of iOS, at some stage, is that correct, and is there a— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, the intention is that it works with all versions. Media : Four days running, no new cases, one patient in hospital—it all sounds pretty promising. How are you feeling? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It is very promising, and I’m feeling encouraged, as we all should, by that. And I think that then means we’re in a good position to provide advice to Cabinet to make a decision next Monday about the possibility of increasing the numbers in groups, and, of course, the key thing here is that because as, again, we’ve had quite high numbers of tests being done of both symptomatic and asymptomatic people, we just increasingly are confident that there aren’t these hidden pockets out there. And that really, then, does allow us to start thinking seriously about what would a move to alert level 1 look like. Media : So will your advice come Monday then be let’s expand those gatherings considering that we’re on the side of zero cases? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, the intention was even when the decision was made to go into alert level 2 to review that after two weeks, and I think you will be able to infer from the numbers that everything remains promising, remembering that it’s not just the time we’ve spent in alert level 2 but actually the preceding time in alert level 3. So I think all the indications are positive. Media : What about the number of people that have recovered, so with back-of-envelope maths it looks like we only have about 35 active cases across the country now. Did you think we’d be in that position and doesn’t that back up the move to move out of level 2 and the restrictions earlier? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think it’s a really good outcome, and the thing here is that even those active cases are ones from some time ago, so we are increasingly confident that we have successfully broken that chain of transmission here onshore. And I guess, two things from that. One is that’s as good an outcome as we might have hoped for from the lockdown in alert level 4, and, again, we were able to do that for as short a period as possible, and it means we can open up more rapidly. I think the second point is that then means we’ve got an even stronger focus on ensuring our border is very robust in our measures there but also a focus on how we might put in place the systems and processes that would allow us to start to open that cautiously with Australia and then potentially beyond. Media : Are you looking specifically at opening more church services earlier than anything else or giving them a special dispensation? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not especially, and I have talked to that already this week. So the aim would be to move as quickly as possible to open up group size for all group activities, and, of course, church and faith-based gatherings are a really important one, and I know there’s a real keenness for some of those groups to get together as soon as possible. Media : You continue to conduct thousands of cases every day. They almost all come back negative. Will there be a point in the future where the testing volumes will actually decrease, just because you’ll run out of people to test? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That’s a good point. So as we move further into alert level 2 and think about alert level 1, the testing will be still on two distinct groups. First of all, symptomatic people—so people with respiratory symptoms. Now, we know, because of low levels of viruses circulating in the community, there will be less of those now than there might be in a couple of months’ time when we start to heard into winter. So those people will all be tested. However, we are reviewing the case definition at the moment with our technical advisory group, just to make sure it is appropriate for a situation we find ourselves in where we’ve got very low or what appears to be no level of the virus circulating inside the country but we still want to make sure we’re not missing any cases if people do present with symptoms. But alongside that is this other surveillance testing which will be particularly targeted at groups who might be at higher risk—so people working at the border in particular, international airline staff, and as well as that perhaps people working in healthcare and other institutions. Media : In terms of the tracer app, I just want to ask, has there ever been any intention to extend it to public transit, which seems to be an area where there is very little contact tracing at all? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, one of the things on public transport now is that most of the journeys are taken by people using a card, some sort of payment card, to get on and off, and I know here in Wellington, for example, even though public transport is free at the moment, for example on buses and ferries, people are still required to use their Snapper card to clock on and off, so that does provide a record of use of public transport that can be used for contact tracing purposes. Media : Snapper doesn’t always require you to give details, though, does it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, your Snapper is registered to an individual. Media : It’s also not mandatory, though. I think they’ve said they will let passengers on if they don’t have a Snapper card. Would you like to see it made mandatory so don’t have any potential gaps in terms of tracing back? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, two things there. One is, yes I understand and I’ve had a family member who’s been on the bus when they didn’t have a Snapper, so I think that’s helpful. But the important thing here is, of course, if someone is a case or a contact but they can recall where they have been—so what I would imagine is that that doesn’t leave a gap, because people will remember where and when they may have travelled over the last few days. Media : In terms of testing, are you looking at doing random testing at the supermarkets any more? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : At the moment we’ve got a detailed plan being developed with proper epidemiological advice about the sort of sampling we can and should be doing and where, and so we’ll make that plan available next week. That is when we will sort of start to move to this much more systematic surveillance testing. Media : So you’re not ruling it out? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not ruling it out, no. Media : Auckland Regional Public Health Service has said it’s going to be a significant challenge for it to meet the Government’s contact tracing requirement. Are you hearing any similar concerns being relayed to the ministry by other public health units, and, if so, is there any additional support for them? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, we haven’t had any other concerns relayed, and Auckland Regional Public Health is our biggest public health unit. It’s serving the biggest population. So, yes, it will be a challenge, the scale-up that will be required there, and we are working very closely with them, and there is additional funding that the Government has signalled will be there to do that. So we’re working very closely with Auckland Regional Public Health and the other public health units about how they will scale up, and there’s also—because we’ve asked them all to put a plan in, they’ve all got good ideas about how to do that and how to be able to scale up that capability very quickly. Media : Why has contact tracing for Māori and Pacific—are Māori and Pacific engaging? Has there been any analysis done? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I can’t speak to the latter point, but I’m happy to have a look at that. Yes, they are engaging and one of the areas we’ve asked the public health units to look at as they develop their plans, and really to scale up, is to think about how they can work much more closely with Māori and Pacific providers and communities who will be able to assist with that contact tracing in those communities, if required. Media : And is ethnicity data available in the app too? Are you looking for that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, we do ask people to record ethnicity so that that will— that just helps us get a picture of who is registering, and then, of course, if there is a case and we need to trace contacts, it’s very important and very useful for us with our planning and deployment of resources to know people’s ethnicity, because it helps us to target funding and service provision into communities that might need it. Media : You also have a registration form for tangihanga on the Ministry of Health website. Are you finding Māori are submitting their funerals and tangihanga there? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes. So the registrations are coming through from funeral directors who will be working with marae and so on around tangihanga, and, of course, we do have some dedicated Māori funeral directors. There’s a group of those, so they’re amongst those who are registering those tangihanga. Media : It’s been quite a while since we’ve had the last COVID-19 related death. Do you expect that we’ve seen the last of that, or is there a risk of more going forward? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That’s my great hope, that we have seen the last of those, and, as you’ll be aware, those deaths have all occurred in older people, many of them associated with our aged residential care outbreaks. So my hope is that, as time goes by, those people will have recovered and are therefore unlikely to add to our stats there. I should also say that over the last few months any cases where there’s been an unexplained or sudden death in the community and it becomes a coroner’s case—in those cases COVID-19 testing has also been done as part of just checking that we’re not missing any cases out in the community, and all those tests have come back negative. Media : [ Inaudible ] the further testing, sorry. That falls into the category of ongoing sentinel testing, right—just what we’d categorise this. What sort of scale are you anticipating it’s been? How many tests do you think will be ongoing in that sort of style of testing? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I would think for the time being that would be several thousand a day. We would be wanting to do quite high levels of sentinel testing right across the country. It may be somewhere between 1,000 and 2,000, but that will be very much a part of the advice we give to each of the public health units about where they should be testing and how many people they should be testing. And for some groups, for example, those working in border agencies, that might require actually regular testing of the same people. In fact, you might want to test all those people working at the border over a period of time. Media : And you said you’re going to release this advice next week, but what sort of, I guess, factors feeding into it—like, I suppose, concentration of previous cases or at risk populations; that sort of stuff. What are the main issues that you’re trying to look at? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, different from the testing we have been doing to date, which has been still testing widely in the community to see if there is asymptomatic infection out there, or people who may have been infected and still have residual virus—we haven’t found any of late, as you know. So, different from that, this will be particularly targeted at areas where we think there is higher risk, and, again, that would be largely around the border but would also be, perhaps, people who are working in healthcare settings. And that will be alongside the testing of people who are symptomatic with the relevant symptoms. Media : Are there specific populations, other than sort of work-based populations, are there specific populations that you would be focusing on that were more high risk? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not necessarily, if we’re in a situation where we’re very confident there isn’t virus circulating out in the community. What we will be wanting to do, though, is make sure that all populations have access to symptomatic testing very readily, and that was a big part of our effort over the last few months—so the mobile testing, our CBACs out widely in the community. Media : And what about flu vaccines—how many are you holding back for those more vulnerable populations, and why are you only recommending that Northern Hemisphere for healthy people between three and 64? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, on the first question, we’re asking all providers to hold some vaccine back for their, for example, older people or pregnant women who they haven’t had a chance to vaccinate yet—although, it’s been seven weeks now since vaccination opened up to those groups. We will also be holding back 20,000 doses in our national store that can be ordered if there are people in those groups. And on the second question, this is because the Northern Hemisphere vaccine is a good, but not full match, with the four strains in the Southern Hemisphere vaccine. And so we want our people who are most vulnerable to flu to be able to get the vaccine that’s got the full four strains covered. Media : OK. And will GPs be required to tell their patients which of those vaccines that they’re getting? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, that will be part of it, and providing information about what it does and doesn’t cover. But, again, the main reason that we went ahead and ordered this vaccine when it was offered was because the specialist advice was very clear: it’s much better for people to have some protection than no protection. And it will be absolutely useful, and provide good protection, for Kiwis who do get that Northern Hemisphere vaccine. Media : And is there no chance of us getting any more of the better vaccine? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Of the? Media : Of the better—the Southern— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Oh, the Southern Hemisphere vaccine—no, that had all gone. Actually, it’s, essentially, manufactured to order at the start of the season. So we were very fortunate to get those extra 300,000 to 400,000 doses we did get ahead of the season. Any final questions? Media : A question from a colleague. At what point do you think it could be safe for non – New Zealand passport holders to travel here—for that exception to be made, for example, for athletes to come through, do the quarantine process, and come into New Zealand? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, that’s one of the issues we’ll now be able to look at. If we’re confident about how things are onshore and we are also confident about our border arrangements, that we’ve got good, robust quarantine and supervised isolation procedures in place, and then also we are looking at the role of testing in that setting, and we will be moving to testing everybody before they leave that—even after the 14 days or before they leave self-isolation or isolation or quarantine. Media : And what do you need to see for that to be a possibility? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, again, we need to be confident in our border processes, and also that there’s a need for people to come in. And, I think, at the moment, it’s restricted to New Zealanders and New Zealand passport holders or permanent residents. But the opportunity will be there, then, to start opening it up. Again, as long as we’re confident we can control the risk at the border—that will be the key thing. Media : Do you have any sort of time frame how soon you think that might be? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, I don’t have any time frame. Media : Sorry, just to be clear: so you’re planning on testing everyone not just from quarantine but also from managed isolation? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That’s right, before they depart from that and head off to their business, yeah. So that will be one of the things we’re doing just, again, as part of that being really confident we have got everything nailed down at the border. Thank you very much. Last modified: 25 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The COVID-19 media conferences with officials were held at 1pm and 1:30pm. Speaker at the 1pm media conference: Watch the media conference. Speaker at the 1:30pm media conference: Watch the media conference. Last modified: 20 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Kia ora koutou katoa. Welcome to this afternoon’s briefing. Today, I can confirm that there are no new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and there are no new old cases, either. That means New Zealand’s total number of confirmed cases remains at 1,153, and our combined total of confirmed and probable cases remains at 1,503. Today, there is an increase of five in the number of people who have recovered from COVID-19—so that is 96 percent of all confirmed and probable cases. I’m pleased to say there are no additional deaths to report. We have just one person in hospital, in Middlemore Hospital, and that person does not require ICU care. Yesterday, our laboratories processed a total of 4,882 tests, and our grand total now is 238,725 tests processed. I’d like to talk a little bit about the new app, NZ COVID Tracer—so, as you’ll all know, formally launched today, is actually available in Apple and Google stores from last night, and continues to be able to be downloaded from there. It’s something like a digital diary that people can use by scanning QR codes at locations that they visit, and those QR codes are based on the nationally used New Zealand Business Number. And just so people know what a QR code looks like, I have one here. That is a QR or Quick Response code. Many people will be familiar with them, but in case you’re not, that’s a QR code. So, if you’ve photographed it, that is not a real QR code. It won’t take you anywhere or let you know that you have been here today. So I would encourage Kiwis to download the app, and our key public health controls, as you know, are to identify cases early by testing, then isolate those people and then to identify quickly who their close contacts are and isolate and test those people as well. So the app is another tool in our tool box to help us do that, and the faster we can do that the more likely we are to contain and prevent any onward spread. If you’ve been using this new app and we need to trace your contacts, then you can agree if that information is made available to our team. The only information that’s held at the ministry—and that is only for the purposes for this public health contact-tracing response, not enforcement—so the only information that’s held is that contact information that you provide when you register. Other information, including the record of where you have been, through scanning the QR codes, is only stored on the phone, and it is deleted after 31 days. It is up to you to share that information with the contact-tracing team should you be identified as a close contact. So, if you do choose to release your information, of course, what that does is help build a picture of where you have been and therefore identify other people who may be close contacts of a case. There’s been a lot of interest in the app already, I’m pleased to say; over 92,000 people have already registered on the app. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment is in the process of contacting some 800,000 businesses around New Zealand to let them know about the process for generating a QR code that is unique to their business number, and already a thousand businesses have created the posters, and they are getting new registrations at around 10 per minute. Just to point out that, at this point, the app does not replace but rather complements other actions that businesses are taking to record who has been on the premises. Subsequent releases of the app will have functionality that will allow people to not only be registered but, if there is a case notified, for a message to be pushed out to people who may have been in a particular business at the point in time when they may therefore be a close contact. There have, I understand, been a few wrinkles with the downloads and running the app this morning; largely, I think, on some android phones. Those have all been looked at. If you have any issues, let us know. The first update, or ironing out of any of the bugs, will be released this afternoon. We’re also talking with those who have developed similar apps, like one being used locally here in Wellington, Rippl, to make sure that there can be connection between this app and theirs, and we will be working closely with them. So, moving on to the World Health Assembly, which finished very early this morning, New Zealand time. I think you will all be aware there was a resolution agreed by all member States around the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. One of the features of that that has been of great interest is the agreement for an independent evaluation of the response, including a response by the World Health Organization and also by member States. For our part, we will of course be willing participants in any review. We’re also particularly interested in the many other aspects of that resolution that were agreed, for example, around vaccines and supply chain, and we’d see an important role for us. It’s not only to support international efforts but, particularly, to work with our Pacific Island countries and territories to ensure that they have ready access to vaccines, should one be developed, and, of course, that their supply chains for medicines and other essential equipment are strong throughout the response. That’s all I have to start with, and I’m happy to take questions. Media : How much of a take-up of that app do you need for it to be a good enough complement to contact tracing? Bloomfield : Well, any uptake is good and helpful, but the more people that use it and download it on to their phones, the better, because it just gives us another way of making sure we have up-to-date contact details and, then, of being able to push the message out to people if they are identified as a possibly close contact. Media : What do you say to people that are quite concerned about the privacy there? Bloomfield : Well, this has been a really key consideration, and, in fact, one of the reasons we have been very methodical in taking our time to get the app out for release. We’ve worked closely with the Privacy Commissioner, and, as I say, the key thing here is the information about where people have been, and, likewise, in subsequent releases where there may be this Bluetooth functionality to share information with other Bluetooth devices, all that information remains on the phone. It is not sent anywhere. It is with the person’s permission that they then share that information. So privacy has been a major consideration, and we recognise the real importance of making sure people are confident that their information is kept private. Media : But if it doesn’t [ Inaudible ] a functionality to alert people if they have been near a COVID case, can you explain the point of the app to me? Bloomfield : Oh, at this stage, the main point is to get people registered, downloaded with the app, and then it does have benefit to them because it helps with them maintaining a record of where they have been in a simple way. Most people know when they’ve been at home and who they’ve been with, or when they’ve been at work, so this is when they’re visiting other premises—retail outlets and hospitality venues, in particular. Media : In terms of the QR codes, we’ve heard from a couple of bars and cafes who’ve said it’s a bit too complex to get a hold of those. Can you just expand a little bit more on the work that you’re doing with businesses to help them get to that? Bloomfield : So I’m not familiar with the details of the process because MBIE have been working with us over the last few weeks to get that New Zealand Business Number converted into a QR code and, in particular, because an NZBN relates to a single business that may have a lot of branches, there’s been some work to ensure that each branch has a unique identifier. I think we’ve seen that many businesses are already downloading the QR code and generating the posters, so if there are issues, then those businesses—for example, bars—should just get in touch with MBIE and get support and assistance for that. Media : Should people that are already using something like Rippl be migrating on to the new app, or should they continue to use the app they were already using? Bloomfield : They could do either. There’s certainly value in using Rippl, and I’ve already downloaded that previously on my phone so that I can check in when I get my morning cup of coffee—so I’m not discouraging people from doing that. But I would encourage them to add our app, and, likewise, we don’t want people to end up having to have a dozen different apps on their phone, depending on where they’re visiting. So a key next step is also to ensure that whatever app people are using, it complies with the standards that we are looking for and are able to, hopefully, migrate to using that single NZBN QR code, and then also provide us with the information we might need at a point in time when we’re wanting to trace somebody. Media : But if you go into a cafe, will you check in using Rippl and the new app? Bloomfield : I hadn’t thought about that, actually. I’ll probably just do one. Media : The NZ COVID Tracer app is not a replacement for something like signing in a sheet when you enter a hospitality outlet—is that correct? Bloomfield : At this point in time, that is correct. Just a reminder that retail outlets don’t need to keep a record of who has been there, but it is our hospitality venues— remembering that people are going for a period of time, usually to sit down and have something to eat and/or drink. So at this point in time, no, the new app—the NZ COVID Tracer—does not replace that requirement, but with the new functionality that comes along, the intention is, of course, then to be able to release our hospitality venues from having to keep a manual record of people. There’s a follow-up question. Media : Outside of this sort of app for contact tracing we’ve received a number of reports of people intentionally writing false names or false phone numbers on the sign-in sheets at different shops. What’s the sort of danger in people doing this, and is it something you have any information on? Bloomfield : Well, I think people need to understand what the purpose is of them recording their details, and that is just that if there is a need to trace them, the whole purpose of keeping that information is to ensure we can do that quickly. That’s there to protect everybody, to stop the possibility of onward transmission. So I just encourage people to be honest, participate, and, again, if they’ve got the opportunity to download the app, that will help them—at this point in time—to keep a record of where they have been, and enable us to contact them should we need to. Media : Those businesses who are going to stick with a manual system—one that they’ve already conjured up themselves—are you happy with that? Or would you like them to move on to the app? Bloomfield : Well, they need to maintain the manual system at the moment. I think there will be a good incentive for them move on to the app because it will be simpler, both for them and for their customers. Media : Would you have preferred to keep the data from this app onshore? It’s being stored in Amazon Web Services servers in Sydney. Was there any possibility of keeping it in New Zealand, or do we just not have that data storage capability? Bloomfield : Yeah, well the Amazon Web Services is an all-of-Government server that we’ve been using since 2017, and I’m very confident in the confidentiality and privacy arrangements around that. You’ll also be aware of course that there is an intention to build a sort of a cloud-based server onshore in New Zealand that was announced not by Amazon but by others a week or two back. But, no, I’m confident. A lot of our data is already in these cloud-based services around the globe. The fact it’s in Australia is neither here nor there. Media : And you can guarantee that, even if people willingly share this data and say that it’s OK to share, it will never be moved around within Government, it won’t be linked to RealMe, the cops won’t be able to see it in any kind of way—it will be just for the Ministry of Health, right? Bloomfield : Yes, I can guarantee that, and that’s part of the obligations on us to get through the privacy impact assessment. So it would only be used for contact tracing purposes for the COVID-19 outbreak control. Media : [ Inaudible ] health workers passing on COVID to other members of their household. There is the regime with the ministry for them to get funded temporary accommodation, however there’s several criteria to qualify. Is that criteria too strict? Bloomfield : Well I’d be interested if it is causing a barrier for some people. I think it’s important to have criteria there so that there is a good rationale for doing it. But the option is there, and Cabinet has put money aside for people to be able to have alternative accommodation if they’re health workers, or if they work in aged residential care, and they feel that their home circumstances means that they could be at higher risk. Media : And how many health workers have asked for that temporary accommodation, and do you know how many— Bloomfield : I can find the number. I understand it’s a relatively small number of applications at the moment, and that may well reflect as much the fact that we have such low case numbers around the country, so people are not seeing that there is a risk? Media : On the World Health Assembly—and this is a personal question—I just note the hours are particularly unfriendly to New Zealand. Have you been sleeping at all in the last three days? Bloomfield : I have been, I am pleased to say. What I can say is that our participation in the World Health Assembly, whether we are doing it virtually from New Zealand, or in Geneva, we are supported by a fantastic team of diplomats who are based at our mission in Geneva. So they have done what you might call what would be our graveyard shift through the night, and we keep in regular contact. We’ve been working with them in the build-up as well. Media : More seriously, can I ask about the takeaways from the Assembly, whether New Zealand was feted for its response to COVID-19, or, if it’s not that sort of an organisation, what your takeaways might have been? Bloomfield : Well I think—you know, one of the things about the World Health Assembly, and about any UN body, is that it is a forum for States to actually agree on how they are going to act collectively. There is no more important thing we could be doing that around at the moment than this global pandemic. The impacts—not just on health, but socially and economically—are profound. So I was really pleased to see—and I have seen some negotiations of resolutions go into and sometimes all through the night to get agreement—this one was agreed, actually, before we started the Assembly, and I think that is a testament to the willingness of countries to act collectively, but also the skill of the diplomats who agreed on a resolution that does still have some issues that—where there are tricky things to work through. So I think it’s a great example of international cooperation work as well. Media : Has New Zealand grown its mana in these sorts of organisations through its response to COVID? Bloomfield : Oh, I’m not sure. I think we just go there to do our bit, to participate, and to contribute. In fact, even outside of this situation—from my experience, again, at previous World Health Assembly’s—the New Zealand diplomats have a very good reputation amongst their colleagues. And very often I’ve found New Zealand is asked to play a role in either chairing drafting groups or helping facilitate getting resolutions finalised because the skill of our diplomats is well known. Media : What would you say about the political issues that an organisation like that has come under fire recently—obviously there’s an important operational function that it fulfils but it is a part of an international political sphere. Do you feel like those politics weigh on the operational day-to-day functioning of the WHO? Bloomfield : Well, they have an influence, but that’s not unexpected because they are, essentially, an organisation of countries. You’ll have heard the WHO Director-General talk about this on the question of Taiwan. What his role is to do is to respond to the wishes of member States. So the WHO can’t make a unilateral decision whether or not Taiwan can be an observer at the WHO; that is up to member States. Yes, all UN organisations are influenced by politics, but that doesn’t mean they’re not important and that they don’t serve a very useful function, particularly in this sort of international global health issue. Media : And just back to the app, will the ministry be setting any firm targets for uptake; and, if so, what would those targets be? Bloomfield : Well, I just am hopeful that as many people as possible download the app; that will make it of maximal use to us. Again, just to reiterate, it’s complementary to our existing contact tracing capability and capacity. We’re hitting the benchmarks around performance at the moment, and this will just give us another option, and, I think, especially once these new functionalities come on board will be useful for individual New Zealanders. Media : In regards to people writing fake contact details at hospitality outlets, that sort of thing, are they putting others at risk? Bloomfield : Potentially they are. So I’d encourage people to provide accurate contact information, and I also encourage them to download the app, because that will mean that we have got their contact information, and, if needs be, we can get hold of them to help manage any risk to them and their families. Media : Are you confident that the app will be picked up enough by, kind of, the vulnerable populations who might be the hardest to contact trace and might even live in more cramped living spaces where COVID could spread more rapidly? Smartphone penetration’s pretty high in New Zealand, but having your data on all the time is not necessarily a thing that a lot of poorer people have. Bloomfield : Sure. So there will be people who don’t want to download the app, and I think that will come from across different social groups. We’ll be putting some effort in to making sure that there is good publicity around the app and that that publicity reaches in through a range of channels into all social and demographic groups. Media : Spark already makes things like Facebook and Twitter free on data on some plans. Would you be hopeful that someone like Spark and Vodafone could make all the data that goes through this app just free? Bloomfield : Oh, absolutely. In fact, over the last couple of months, both those companies have made a range of our apps—for example, the new Mentemia app and the data exchange on that; that’s a mental health one that Sir John Kirwan has developed. So there is that and a number of others where they have basically zero rated that any data use by people who are using them on their mobile phones. Media : Have you had any conversations with, or has the ministry had any conversations with, Spark and Vodafone about this particular app? Bloomfield : I’d have to check that. My team have done amazing work on this, so I’d be confident they have left no stone unturned. Media : The lockdown’s obviously an extraordinary amount of time in preventing the spread of COVID, but lots of other clinical diseases as well—I’m thinking, particularly, of HIV and STIs—advocates say there’s a possibility of breaking the chain of transmission. Do you agree? And, if so, how can we capitalise on that extraordinary period of time so that might cap future transmissions, or what would you say to that? Bloomfield : Look, to be honest, I haven’t really thought about that particular issue. We’ve certainly, of course, seen this big reduction in infectious respiratory diseases. And I think one of the things we will be very interested to look at is what the pattern of presentations to health services is over these coming weeks and months for both communicable and non-communicable diseases. My understanding is that a number of other countries have seen quite a significant drop in non-communicable disease outcomes, including, for example, myocardial infarction, strokes, obviously injuries as well are greatly reduced if you haven’t got people driving around in motor vehicles or doing other risky activities. So we’ll be looking closely at what the patterns of, for example, primary care and hospital presentations are over coming months—that will give us an idea. Media : I guess as a follow-up: are you in a place where you can capitalise on this very unique time to actually understand how best to treat or to study or to know? Like, do you have resources in place to do this sort of work? Bloomfield : Actually, one thing we are focused on and putting our resource into is capturing and amplifying some of the changes that have happened in the way services are delivered—in particular, that use of virtual technologies. Now, clearly, not every interaction between, for example, a GP and one of their patients can happen over the phone or virtually, but many can, as can many, for example, follow-up appointments with specialists at a hospital. So we’re very interested, and this is where we are putting effort into—is capturing those, locking them in, and broadening their use so that they, yeah, are part of what the future health system looks like. Media : But hasn’t that virtual consultation been a little bit problematic for GPs, because there’s no funding coming into them if you’re just consulting virtually? How is that sustainable? Bloomfield : Well, a couple of things there. We’ve been working with GP leaders over the last couple of months on that very issue. Secondly, they are still able to charge co- payment for a virtual consultation. Of course, it’s not something that people are used to doing. They’re used to getting their money’s worth by coming in, sitting in a waiting room for some time, having their 10 minutes, and then getting a prescription and going. But I think, as it becomes more a normal part of our interactions with primary care, that will be less of an issue. But it has forced us to—both in the ministry and with primary care—rethink about the way funding goes to primary care, so that we can fund and incentivise the most appropriate consultation regardless of how that happens. Media : What’s our capacity to quarantine incoming arrivals at the moment, and are there any plans to ramp it up if Cabinet makes any decisions around loosening border restrictions for certain industries or certain categories of worker, and that kind of thing? Bloomfield : So my understanding is we’ve got 10 hotels that are at the moment available to quarantine or put people in isolation in Auckland alone. There also has been a hotel in Christchurch. So we have plenty of capacity. If we were increasing the number of arrivals coming, it would be part of a broader decision around relaxing border controls. Now, of course, the first one that we’re looking at is the trans-Tasman one with Australia, and we would only do that if we were in a position to not require incoming travellers to quarantine. So I think our focus is, first of all, on that. But certainly what we’ve seen is a pretty steady pattern of relatively low numbers of people coming into the country—Kiwis returning—over the last few weeks at least. So there’s plenty of capacity for that. Any final questions? Media : Just one, and apologies if you already clarified this yesterday. But, in terms of the WHO evaluation, is that looking into the origins of the virus and the initial outbreak? Bloomfield : Yes. I think that’s explicitly in the resolution that that has been included, and I can imagine that took quite a bit of negotiation to get agreement on. Media : Are you able to expand a bit on the negotiation that was required to get there? Bloomfield : No. Unfortunately, I wasn’t part of them. It would have been fascinating. But there were weeks of, basically, Geneva-based negotiation to get to agreement on the text of the resolution. Final question. Media : Can I just ask—sorry, back on the app—if it is rolled out—if there is a higher level of uptake and it becomes easier for people to check in to places, will you require retail outlets to start contact tracing the same as hospitality, or are they completely off the hook? Bloomfield : I think, if you think about the functionality for people, as part of their digital diary, I’m expecting retailers to have a QR code for their New Zealand Business Number—not because they are required to maintain a record but because it will be helpful for people to scan—and they can just quickly scan on the way in—and that will keep a record of where they have been. Media : Do you think it’s getting a bit confusing with multiple different apps and then manual sign in and other people using the QR codes? Bloomfield : It could be confusing. But, at the moment, the thing that isn’t confusing is that we have got this app. It is specifically to assist our contact tracing, and I’d really encourage people to download it on to their phone and to register. OK. Thank you very much. Last modified: 21 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. PM : Kia ora koutou katoa. Good afternoon. Welcome to day seven of alert level 2. Today, I want to provide you an update on progress towards our goal of stamping out COVID-19 and moving as fast, but also as safely, as possible in opening up more of our economy and getting New Zealand moving. Visiting Rotorua yesterday and getting out and about on the weekend, it was great to see New Zealanders returning to our new, safer normal. Cafes were full, I can confirm from multiple experiences, and you can see people also adjusting to rules around social distancing, contact tracing, and so on. Last week’s Budget highlighted our commitment to job creation, keeping people in work, and supporting key sectors such as tourism to get back on their feet. And, ultimately, the best thing we can do for the economy is to stay on top of the virus and continue our managed de-escalation of restrictions when the health data says it’s safe to do so. We do intend to keep phasing in additional activity under level 2, when the evidence show we can with low to little risk of further outbreaks. As I previously said, though, descent can be more dangerous than the climb. Many countries that have started to reduce their restrictions have experienced a spike in cases. We shouldn’t be so bold as to assume that that couldn’t or wouldn’t happen here. Remember: COVID-19 is still in our community, and we know from our clusters that one case can become 90 after a single night out or a single event. It would only take two to three instances of that for our caseload to escalate back to pre-lockdown numbers. No one wants to see that. And so we have entered levels 3 and 2 with a degree of caution, and the data so far suggests that this has been the right approach. First, the number of new cases of COVID-19 has reduced significantly. There were 31 new cases during the 16 days we were in level 3, and so far there have only been two new cases in the seven days we have been in level 2. Importantly, all of the cases under both level 3 and level 2 have been directly traced to existing cases and, ultimately, represent the long tail of COVID. The last case of community transmission where the source of the case was unknown was early April. That means we have had three full transmission cycles with no new cases of community transmission recorded in New Zealand. We have not seen any new clusters emerge for more than a month. This gives us a high degree of certainty that there is no community transmission in New Zealand. But our journey is far from over. COVID-19 is still present in New Zealand, and it is certainly still present around the world. And, while that remains the case, there will be work to be done and there will be risk that needs to be managed. Today, I just want to set out in a little more detail some of what the ongoing management of that risk looks like here in New Zealand. Through every level, we will maintain our underlying wall of defence against the virus. Now, that includes widespread surveillance and testing, rapid contact-tracing, physical distancing as a new normal, staying home even if mildly sick, regular handwashing, and tight measures at the border to stop new cases coming in. That’s our new normal. While our border measures carry on regardless of what level we are at, let me be clear that amendments to the border rules can occur at any level also. So it is possible to have a trans-Tasman bubble, for instance, at level 2; it is not contingent on us being at level 1 for that to happen. The spike in new cases other countries have experienced in recent weeks as they de-escalate their restrictions relate to the very activities that evidence shows us are more likely to spread the virus: mixing and mingling at social occasions. This is the activity that by far and away most concerns us and that we are purposefully placing limits on. So tomorrow we take a cautious step forward with bars and clubs being able to open, but with strict level 2 restrictions around being seated and being separated in place in order to ensure that we stay safe. However, I know many people want to return to normal as soon and as safely as we can, and, of course, that’s everyone’s intention. So, as we progress through level 2, we plan to regularly adjust our settings to allow more activity when the data says it’s safe. The first settings check-in will come on Monday, when Cabinet will consider increasing the size of gatherings. Currently, this sits at 10. If the data leading up to Monday continues its positive run, we will have more confidence to lift the size of gatherings, and, very importantly, that does apply to things like church services. As we move through level 2 and continue to have better data on which to make further decisions, that will include the opportunity to further increase the size of gatherings again. We will also have the option down the track of, potentially, relaxing certain physical-distancing restrictions, such as on buses and on planes. Many of you will know that, at the moment, physical-distancing requirements means that they are running under full capacity—I believe, for planes, at 50 percent. So there is the option of looking, down the track, at reducing some of those requirements, potentially even while we are still in level 2, if that’s what the data supports. It’s important that we get New Zealand moving as fast as we can to limit the economic impact of the virus, which is why we will adopt this nimble approach and take incremental adjustments as and when the evidence tells us it’s safe to do so. We do not have to move a full level in order to wind down restrictions, which is something you’ll recall I indicated when we set out the framework for level 2. In the same way we broke the chain of transmission by staying a full five weeks in lockdown, and then assessed our progress by briefly going into level 3, I envisage that we will stay in level 2 until the director-general has confidence that we can de-escalate further, but do keep in mind you will keep seeing these incremental changes while we’re here and that we will be regularly reviewing those every two weeks. But, unlike in level 4, as I’ve said, where the rules stayed the same, we have that flexibility, and that’s because our hard-won achievement in getting the virus under control now gives us greater choices and flexibility. We are doing well, our plan is working, and, as a result of our team’s hard work, we have scope to get our economy moving again and, in doing so, not only avoid the worst of the health outcomes others have experienced; we can also try to minimise some of the economic pain. All through our response, we’ve made decisions based on what is best for New Zealand and followed our own plan and our own path, and we do that again. We are hopeful this phased de-escalation will continue our success to date while avoiding the surge in cases other countries have experienced as they moved out of lockdown. Time will tell, but, at this stage, we remain cautiously optimistic. Happy to take everyone’s questions. Media : What are the options for expanding mass gatherings? Is it straight to 100? Is it, sort of, 20, 50? PM : Yeah, and, again, you will have the director-general talk about wanting to step in. At the moment, alert level 2 gives that maximum of 100, and so, obviously, the director- general’s looking to that as we move forward. What we want to do in these early phases is make sure that, if we have a case and they have been in an environment where there have been other people, that we have greater control, and that means we affect fewer people and are less likely to have to take extreme measures like moving up levels, because we have those restrictions on mass gatherings. So that’s why we use that cautious approach at this stage in our strategy to stamp out COVID. Media : So it’s likely to be closer to, say, moving it up to 20, 30, than it is to go straight up to 100 in one day? PM : Yeah, you’ll see that’s been the approach of the director-general at this stage, is phasing into those bigger and bigger numbers as we have greater confidence. But, again, we do rely on his guidance around what he’s seeing, what he’s seeing internationally, and making sure that we don’t move so quickly that, if we do have an outbreak, we see a wider number of New Zealanders impacted by that. That’s what we want to prevent. Media : And then on Monday—so is it then going to become a weekly review of increasing mass gatherings, or will it be every two weeks again? PM : We’ve tended to use transmission cycles because that then gives us a sense of what’s happening with the virus. That two weeks then gives us the confidence about what’s happened prior, and so, as we’re moving through now, we’re starting to see the impacts of the final tail of level 3, the beginning of level 2. Every two weeks gives us that greater confidence in the data that we have, and that’s why we’ve tended to use two-week cycles. Media : And, if you decide to change the limits on mass gatherings, when would that actually come into effect? Say you make the decision on Monday that we will increase gathering sizes, when— PM : We’ll stick to that rotation we’ve always had: decision Monday, 48 hours, then it comes into effect. Media : Prime Minister, is the idea to maybe add a new public holiday, essentially, dead now that Winston Peters has said that New Zealand First wouldn’t support it? PM : So you will have heard me say yesterday that we’re looking at a range of different options to try and encourage investment into our local economies, and that includes thinking about what will make a difference for those who are in hard-hit areas—hospitality, when it comes to tourism—and there are a range of options within that. And so I haven’t been dismissive of those. There are pros and cons, and I think we should be open about that, and I would be interested to hear the view of some small businesses who would be positively affected and others that would find it hard. So I am still interested in hearing those different views as we look at those options. Media : You would need Cabinet approval, right? You wouldn’t be able to do it unilaterally at the moment. PM : We go through processes, yes. But, of course, as you will have heard me say, we’re considering a range of options, and I haven’t ruled any in or out. Media : But Winston Peters has said publicly that New Zealand First won’t back it. So that’s surely— PM : I’ve seen that feedback, and really he’s made some statements around assumptions about small businesses and, ultimately, small businesses have that opportunity to give their view. I’ve heard many who represent the business community point to the pros and cons. So let’s hear those. Media : Could you move another holiday around? Take Boxing Day or the day after New Year’s Day—move it forward to August or July and then not have it later on. That way businesses aren’t facing a— PM : Yeah, and look, again, I’ve heard a range of different options being floated, and what we’ve been careful to do is to not be dismissive of those. This is an extraordinary time, and I think we should be willing to consider extraordinary ideas. Media : You mentioned bars and clubs are opening tomorrow. What is your message to them? Are you satisfied they’ll be safe? PM : Yeah, yeah, I am. I have huge faith in businesses that have prepared and opened to date, and including asking of New Zealanders who will be visiting them: make sure that you support those businesses by doing the right thing by them. They’ll be working really hard to maintain the rules and they’ll need your help with that. Media : And what is your message to those bars opening tomorrow? PM : I know that this time has been incredibly tough. I know that they won’t be operating in the normal way. We all have a safe new normal now, and, for me, I wish them, you know, every success as we look to rebuild as a country, and my hope and expectation is that everyone supports them to do that safely. Media : Prime Minister, can I ask about the alert level system? PM : Sorry? About the— Media : [ Inaudible ] the alert level system.  PM : Oh, yes. Media : So, references to alert level 1 have largely gone from the website. So what is alert level 1? Is that the new floor? PM : So alert level 1 does have basic ongoing parameters around it. So the expectation there, of course, is you continue with the most basic of those public health measures: we still want people who are sick to stay home, we still want you to wash your hands, and there is an expectation that we would still have some restrictions around the border. So it’s not complete status quo; it does have parameters around it. But, by and large, a lot of the things that inhibit normal business activity are removed at that level. Media : And I appreciate you won’t want to be, or probably can’t be, precise about when level 1 might be achievable, but is that a matter of weeks or months, or— PM : Well, you’ll hear by the way I’m talking about level 2—there’s a range within level 2, and we are stepping our way into it. So you can see by the fact that we are stepping in, that we’re using two-weekly transmission cycles, it will give you a bit of a sense of the time frames that we’re anticipating. But again, all of this is about opening up as quickly as we can but as safely as we can, and by giving ourselves a bit of room so that, if something goes wrong, it’s not straight back to 3. We’ve got some containment measures still in place. Media : So no time frame aside from the fact that it won’t be happening in the next fortnight. PM : Yep, so no time frame yet, but we will continue to be giving those milestones, as we have today, that says: if things are looking good, two weeks’ time we’ll up those mass gathering numbers. I’ll keep giving those signals at each point. If those mass gathering numbers are looking good, we’ll give you the next point of consideration and potential change. Media : You mentioned on Monday, or suggested on Monday, that the Government app would be helpful for people who aren’t necessarily trusting businesses to use their data in the most responsible manner. But, even if someone has the Government app, they still do have to use the business contact-tracing register. PM : Yeah, for a time, yeah—for a time. So what we have, of course—this is a digital diary. So, keeping in mind it’s hospitality that are really required to be keeping data, information about everyone that’s coming through their operation. Retail—that requirement isn’t there. So, for hospitality, for a short period—it’ll be a couple of weeks before the functionality is within the app provided by the Ministry of Health, which will then give them the ability not only if they know you’ve got COVID but to then notify anyone else who’s been in that premises, that they need to take certain health measures. So that’s something that will be built in. So there’ll be a period of time where there’ll be a bit of an overlap for ongoing contact-detail collection. Media : Prime Minister, this morning Simon Bridges acknowledged that there were two members of his caucus wanting to take him on for the leadership. Do you have a message for him? PM : No, no. As I’ve said many, many times before, my focus has always been on running the Government. And, at this time, more than any other time, my focus is squarely on what we need to be dong on behalf of New Zealanders. So I’m not going to change my practice of not engaging in the politics of the Opposition. Media : There were some pretty tumultuous times with the Labour Party and changing leadership before yourself. What’s it like being part of that? PM : And probably for the fact that I have had my own experiences in Opposition is probably the reason that, actually, I have a policy of just not engaging in other people’s politics. It’s a matter for them; my job is to lead the Government and to lead us through COVID-19.  Media : You’ve gone up against Nikki Kaye quite a few times in elections. Do you rate her as a politician? PM : Again, you keep asking this line of questioning and I’m still not going to engage with it. My job is squarely to make sure that I’m focused on jobs, employment, our recovery. So I’m just not going to engage in the politics or the personalities on the other side. Media : On that Newshub poll about the Labour Party, then—on that Newshub poll—do you know who’s in the high sixties and low seventies in your list, and do you think they’re, you know, worthy of being MPs? PM : We haven’t completed our list. So, obviously, that’s a public list. Once it’s completed, people will be able to see the full ambit of talent that we’ll be looking to bring in. I am, of course, very involved in that process, but it is, certainly, not complete; when it is, we release it immediately. Media : How would you describe Simon Bridges’ leadership as the Opposition leader during this COVID-19 time? PM : Again, talking in generalities, my view is that, at any time, the role of the Opposition is an important one. They are the ones that hold the Government of the day to account; in extraordinary times, that role becomes even more important. But I tend not to get into, then, the individual role played by particular personalities, other than to acknowledge that Opposition is an important function of our Parliament. Media : Is it your view that the epidemic response select committee has kind of run its course and should now be shut down once Parliament returns? PM : Yeah, well, I do think we should acknowledge the purpose for which it was there. It was there because we had a time when Parliament couldn’t operate, and it wasn’t right that there was no ability to make sure that we had some accountability check. Parliament is now returning to normal. Select committees are functioning again. Question time is functioning again. The House is meeting again. And so things have changed, and I think we should therefore expect things to change. Media : There was an email sent from the Leader of the House’s office around Ministers not having to appear before the committee any more. Is that a call you back personally? PM : Again, I think we should be clear about what was being asked of there. You are all very familiar with the fact that, after a Budget, there’s a process whereby Ministers and officials appear before select committee for scrutiny. That is a right and proper process. What doesn’t make sense is to duplicate that through one select committee, and so I think that’s a fair point to raise. Media : On the issue of Labour and New Zealand First positions on the additional public holidays—as you sort of work through that with your coalition partners, will you be making the point that currently your relative polling positions are very different? PM : Look, I think we should be fair here to, actually, the sentiment I expressed yesterday, which is that we are, as a Government, looking at a wide range of options to support tourism, to support small-business owners, to get our economy back up and running again. And so I haven’t ruled things in or out. But those are discussions that are still being had and ideas that are still being considered. Media : But your positions as a Labour Party, as part of that Government, are clearly more popular than the positions of the other parties that form— PM : That’s not how I operate, though. Media: Prime Minister, will National actually be able to hold a caucus meeting on Tuesday? Will the rules allow it? PM : Yes. Obviously, what we’re having to do is make sure that we give space for physical distancing. Parliament is a workplace. So, obviously, there are different rules that  apply to the way that we operate here. But, working through the Speaker, just making sure that we can have spaces, because it can be quite cramped in those caucus rooms—spaces to be able to meet, with a bit more physical distancing. I know that’s what I was intending to reach out to the Speaker and just find alternative spaces. Media : Just on your extraordinary popularity at the moment, are we likely to see new faces on the Labour list when it comes out— PM : Always—always—you can have that expectation. That’s a given. Regardless of how a party is polling, you will see new faces, new talent, new people coming through, new representation. And that’s regardless of a party’s polling. Media : I guess my question was going to be, though: has your popularity brought people willing to join the Government, willing to join the Labour Party, to stand for the party? PM : Look, again, I would hope that our values as a Labour Party will be drawing people in. And you’ll always find that I’m very circumspect about polls—always have been. When they’re good; when they’re not so good. Ultimately, it’s the opinions of people and their view on election day that counts, and I take nothing for granted. Media : Prime Minister, the phase-down for the alert levels seems to be quite nuanced. Do you regret not taking a more nuanced approach in late March? PM : No—nope. Media : Because, clearly, there’s been quite an impact from going straight from 2 to 4, and maybe the thousands of workers who’re going to lose their jobs at Fletcher’s, you know, some of them might be thinking “What was the justification for that move?” PM : The justification was what we saw in almost any other country around the world who did not have that early-mover advantage, and I don’t think that we can assume success could have been achieved, necessarily, through any other means than the path that we took. And so we took that position so that we could move out of those heavy restrictions quicker and sooner, but safely, relative to others. And I think you’re seeing that we are doing that. There are others, who took a different approach, who may not have had the kinds of restrictions we did, who are now almost limping on with ongoing restrictions that are very tight, months later. So that was what we wanted to avoid. Media : Is the Transmission Gully PPP about to fall over? PM : My understanding is that NZTA are still negotiating alongside the contractor there and working through issues. So I think any statement is premature at this point. Of course, we all want to make sure that it’s finished as soon as possible. Media : The Government stands ready to fill the breach if the private partner does walk away? PM : Again, I don’t want to pre-empt any of those contract negotiations that are going on. Media : Was it appropriate for Kelvin Davis to skip the Epidemic Response Committee this morning to do a Facebook Live? PM : Oh, well, again, I wouldn’t summarise it in that way. Keep in mind, the Minister appeared before the Epidemic Response Committee seven days ago. Appearances from Ministers before select committees often are usually associated with Estimates hearings and so on. Those are coming up as well, but I don’t think it’s unreasonable for the Minister to say, “Well, I’ve appeared at that committee seven days ago. My next expectation is to appear at the subject committee for Estimates.”, and I don’t think that’s an unreasonable expectation. Media : But if it’s, as you say, a replacement for Parliament during this time, usually Opposition MPs would have the opportunity to question Ministers daily at question time, so—  PM : Yes, and Parliament has resumed in normality; the schedule has not changed. We’re in a recess, and that’s as per the schedule. We’re back next week, as per the schedule. Parliament is back to business, and so the select committees are all back to business, as well. So simply saying there shouldn’t be duplication between the work—and depriving other Opposition members who are on those other select committees of being able to do their job, either. Media : Do you have a message for the people who might be putting fake details in those contact-tracing sheets at cafes and restaurants? Are they putting people at risk? PM : Well, the very point of it is to look after them. But I do understand that nervousness around handing over details, and so that is why that work is being done by the Ministry of Health to create a personal digital diary. And, look, that is going to take some time to give it all of the functionality that means people are no longer handing over any details, but that’s one of the reasons the ministry has worked to do that. Media : Usually, marae in Auckland open up their wharenui for homeless, and because of COVID-19 the most vulnerable will be needing their help at this time. Do you have plans to engage early with these marae and their iwi? PM : Yeah, and so I know the work Waatea and others have been doing has been incredible through this time, and they’ve played a significant role in providing for whānau. We’ve looked to try and support that where we could, and what I’d like to see is ongoing partnership, working together to make sure that, where those community organisations—be it marae, be it other NGOs—that, actually, we acknowledge that they do have those connections with whānau; they are reaching into where the need is and that we need to walk alongside them in that. OK. Last couple of questions. Media : Have you had much to do with Todd Muller? PM : Oh, a little bit—during climate change talks. Media : What do you think of him? PM : Again, I don’t make a habit of giving personal judgments on other members of Parliament. I don’t think it’s my job, but, where we all have a constructive role to play together, that’s where I tend to engage. Media : One more on that poll. PM : Sorry, what was that? Media : One more on the poll. Numbers like that mean the Labour machinery would feel very excited about this election, but it would also mean that they probably want you to get a big mandate for big changes, right? Are you worried about the level of policy ambition that your party will push on you ahead of the election? PM : No. Again, you’re making a huge amount of assumptions. I take nothing for granted. I never rely on polls. I rely on garnering the public support through hard graft, through hard work, and, right now, that will mean making sure that Kiwis have jobs, because that’s their expectation of me. Media : You might not pay attention to the polls, but, presumably, your policy— PM : I don’t. But presumably? Media : Your policy people [ Inaudible ] PM : Oh, I think that’s a pretty cynical view of political parties and their motivations. OK, thanks, everyone. Last modified: 21 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The daily media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference here. Last modified: 3 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Kia ora. Ana mea nui ki a koutou katoa. Nau mai haere mai ki tēnei hui. Greetings everybody. Welcome to Friday’s press conference: day four of Alert Level 3. I will hand over first to the Director of Public Health, Dr Caroline McElnay. Thank you. Tēnā koutou katoa. Today, we have three new confirmed cases of COVID-19 to report. One case is linked to overseas travel, one is linked to a known case and is still being investigated, and one is still under investigation. This means our total confirmed cases is 1,132 and the total probable cases 347. That brings our current total of confirmed and probable cases in New Zealand to 1,479. I’m pleased to say that there are no new COVID-19 deaths to report. Yesterday, our laboratories completed 5,328 tests, bringing the total number of tests completed to date to 139,898. We have 1,252 cases that are reported as having recovered from COVID-19, which is an increase of 11 from yesterday, and so 85 percent of all our confirmed and probable cases are considered to be recovered. There are six people in hospital today, and none of those six are in intensive care. There are still 16 significant clusters. One has had no cases notified in a 28-day period, and that is considered to be closed. We expect to close another cluster tomorrow, and we have a further six clusters where the last case was reported between 14 and 28 days ago, so we expect to be able to close those off in the next few days. I just want to talk about the press release which was issued by Waitematā earlier today. So Waitematā District Health Board this morning issued a media statement on three staff members who have tested positive for COVID-19. One of those was tested and was positive at the weekend, one was included in yesterday’s tally, and one is included in today’s count. The staff had worked on a ward where patients from St Margaret’s Hospital and Rest Home were transferred due to staffing shortages at that facility. I have spoken to DHB deputy chief executive, Dr Andrew Brant, and he has assured me that they have taken all appropriate actions to minimise any potential risks to patients and staff. The source of staff contracting COVID-19 remains under investigation. Full PPE was available and worn by staff at all times in the area where the St Margaret’s patients are being cared for. A review is in progress to understand how and where the infection may have occurred. Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr McElnay. I want to cover three things today: around enforcement, the winter energy payment, and the small-business cash-flow loan scheme. Firstly, on enforcement: an update of our ongoing enforcement under Alert Level 3 rules. It is paramount that we do not lose our hard-won health gains as we move to reboot our economy. Today, I can update you that there have been a total of 281 breaches of the CDEM or Health Acts under Alert Level 3, and that’s an increase of 96 in the past 24 hours. Of those 281, 77 people have been prosecuted—an increase of 31 in the past 24 hours—180 warnings have been issued—an increase of 61 in the past 24 hours—and there have been 24 youth referrals—an increase of four in the past 24 hours. There have been 2,064 police assurance patrols over the past two days, alongside 2,790 crime prevention patrols in neighbourhoods and business districts. The increases in these numbers are an indication that the police are stepping up their enforcement response, and this will continue over the weekend. I want to make it clear that most New Zealanders are indeed doing the right thing and that this is actually reflected in the number of people calling out those who are doing the wrong thing. There have been a total of 2,101 reports from members of the public at level 3: 991 of those about businesses and 785 about individuals; 325 about mass gatherings. These are being followed up, and as we head into the weekend, there is a particular example that I want to highlight. As part of these reports by members of the public, there has been an increase of reports about parties at residential addresses that clearly include people beyond that person’s bubble. I have two clear messages for anyone considering that. First, cancel your plans now; secondly, be aware that the police will be particularly taking a dim view of this activity as part of their level 3 enforcement activity this weekend. We know that events where there have been gatherings such as parties have been at the root of a number of our clusters. The virus has proven it will spread easily at events like this. Any uptick in cases as a result of parties will mean that we have to stay in level 3 longer. So, please: don’t be an idiot. Stick to your bubble and everyone will be better off. I want to mention the winter energy payment today. From today, this payment runs for four months, as it has since 2018. For this year, the Government has doubled the 2020 winter energy payment to support our older and lower-income New Zealanders. This year, it comes to $1,400 for couples and $900 for a single person. People will see this additional money in their next payment from MSD. There’s two reasons that we made the decision to double the payment. At a time when we’re asking people to stay at home in their bubbles and keep well, our role is to provide support for our most vulnerable to stay warm and healthy and reduce any unnecessary burden on health services. We also know that those on lower incomes are more likely to spend that extra income on basic household needs, and so we know that this doubling of the winter energy payment will provide an immediate stimulus to local economies across the country as we are rebooting the economy. Today, we are also announcing further measures as part of our significant support package for businesses to boost cash flow and protect jobs and incomes. To date, the Government has acted quickly to put in place business support such as the $10.5 billion wage subsidy, the large package of business tax support, and the business finance guarantee scheme that we’re delivering in partnership with the banks. We’ve also been making sure that this support gets out the door to our business, workers, and economy as soon as possible and, indeed, faster than in many other countries. Today, we are adding to that. We have announced that the Government will provide interest-free loans for a year for small and medium sized business impacted by COVID-19 to support their immediate cash-flow needs and meet fixed costs. Businesses with 50 or fewer employees will be able to apply to the Inland Revenue Department for loans from 12 May. This is a 100 percent Government lending scheme to support our SMEs. We’re backing these businesses because we know how important they are to our economy. We also know that our small and medium enterprises have not been able to access the support that they need from other sources. The scheme will provide $10,000 to every firm and, in addition, $1,800 per equivalent fulltime employee. The scheme has a maximum term of five years. Repayments of principal and interest are not required for the first two years. The interest rate will be 3 percent, but, as noted, the loans will be interest-free if they are paid back within a year. The eligibility criteria are the same as for the wage subsidy scheme, but businesses will also have to declare that they are a viable business and that they will use the money for core business operating costs. There will be an audit process, led by IRD. This support is available to help more than 400,000 businesses who have 50 or fewer employees. It’s designed to get immediate support and help to our smaller businesses to cover costs like rent and other bills. It sits alongside the business finance guarantee scheme that we put in place with banks for medium-sized businesses. Today, I can also announce that we are making a number of updates to this scheme based on the feedback we have had. This includes removing the Government’s requirement for a general security agreement and making the scheme more flexible by not requiring customers to have drawn down all existing facilities before applying. We are considering further changes to that scheme as well, to ensure it plays its part in supporting our businesses. Taken together, the wage subsidy, the business loan guarantee scheme, the significant packages of tax changes, and the support through the business loan scheme, we have a significant package to cushion the blow of COVID-19 for businesses to protect jobs and put New Zealand’s economy on a footing to get going again off the back of the amazing work that New Zealanders have all done to stamp out COVID-19 and get a head-start for our economic recovery. Finally, the Prime Minister in her press conferences this week has finished by talking about slices of Kiwi ingenuity that we’re seeing in Alert Level 3 as we find new ways of working while making sure we stay on course for our health response. Today, I’d like to add one that’s close to my heart as the Associate Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage. Our arts sector has suffered an intense blow as we fight COVID-19, as have others around the world, seen through the cancellation and postponement of Cannes Festival or the New York Tribeca festival. So, this year in New Zealand, we are bringing our arthouse to your house. The New Zealand International Film Festival is this year presenting its programme online for the very first time. From 24 July to 2 August, the world-class curated programme of world and New Zealand films can be screened at home. The joy, inspiration, and connection these festivals bring us will be missed by many, but now we have a creative solution befitting of our culture sector, and one that is well worthy of our support. Happy to take your questions. Media: Dr McElnay, how can you take the word of the Waitematā DHB when they say that they’re doing everything that they can to minimise infection when three staff members have been infected with the coronavirus? Dr Caroline McElnay: So Waitematā DHB have given me some details today around the investigations that they’re undertaking. They launched extensive investigations after the first case was reported. They have been doing a significant amount of testing of both staff and patients. The two further cases that have developed since then has added to that intensity of swabbing that is under way and their investigations are still in progress, and that includes patients as well as staff. Media: [Inaudible] that didn’t really answer the question, sorry—how can you take them at their word that they’re doing everything they can to minimise infection when they have three staff members who have been infected? Dr Caroline McElnay: Well, because they’re investigating it thoroughly, and the staff who were infected—we still don’t know the source of that infection, but the DHB has assured me that the staff were wearing PPE when they had any dealings with any of the COVID-19 residents who had been transferred to that ward. Media: What roles were those staff in—are they flexi-nurses, perhaps, who were working between a ward that has COVID patients and other wards within the hospital? Dr Caroline McElnay: I don’t have the details of their exact roles that they had, but the DHB has investigated where they were working and what their possible contact was with any of the patients, and have ensured that PPE was worn. And, obviously, this is why they really need to investigate this fully to make sure that there are no possible breaches of any PPE—we really want that assurance. Hon Grant Robertson: And just to be absolutely clear that, obviously, this is a hospital that’s been dealing with the transferred patients from the St Margaret’s rest home. We had assurances that the staff involved have all been wearing PPE, but this is why we have to continue to investigate these matters. But also be aware—as we’ve said a number of times—that, unfortunately, PPE is not completely foolproof, and so we have to be taking extra vigilance. I’m sure that’s the outcome we’ll get. Media: Why are these Government-backed loans necessary when we already have the business finance guarantee scheme? Is it the case that banks aren’t getting money out the door fast enough? Hon Grant Robertson: I think for small and medium enterprises, in particular, there are quite specific issues—I mean, many of the small businesses in New Zealand are actually based upon individuals. The capital that’s in the business is actually being created off the back of perhaps their own house or their own savings, and those people can’t always get the support that they need from a bank. So this is a scheme that’s designed specifically for small and medium enterprises. We believe it’s a scheme that will be welcomed because it will give instant access to cash flow—to the working capital that’s needed to support these businesses through this situation. The business finance guarantee scheme: we are continuing, as I said, to tweak the criteria of that and to work with the banks to ensure that it does play its part. But when it comes to these SMEs, we think this kind of bespoke scheme delivered directly by the Government will mean that they’ll get the cash flow they need. I’ll just take a follow-up. Media: The tourism industry is really keen for domestic travel to be included under level 2. Is that something the Government will re-look at? Hon Grant Robertson: As the Prime Minister said yesterday, we’re still finalising what will happen under level 2 within some of those specific areas. Quite clearly, under level 2 we’d want to be limiting around things like mass gatherings, in particular, but we have to look again at the detail of what’s required for travel—how we can make sure that that travel remains safe and doesn’t become a vector for further infection. So that work’s under way at the moment to see what can be done under level 2. Media: Minister Robertson, why are there two different versions of the bill that passed yesterday—one with the loan scheme in it and one without—and why was the one with the loan scheme tabled when it wasn’t announced in the press release? Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah. So look, what happened yesterday was that the bill that was put out by the Parliamentary Counsel Office—and it was tabled in the House—was incorrect. The Parliamentary Counsel’s office have apologised for that. It was always the intention of the Government to be able to bring this scheme forward, and all the legislation did was create the enabling framework for that. I think what’s really important here is, today, we’ve got a scheme that will put money in the pockets of those small and medium enterprises to meet their fixed costs, and I’m sure they’ll welcome that. Media: So does that make you regret the speed which Parliament was working at? In essence, because of that small error by a small part of Parliament, Parliament has now passed the wrong piece of legislation. Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I wouldn’t actually characterise the legislation that way. This is something that we always intended to do; the legislation has simply created the enabling framework for that. But—to your initial point—look, there is a lot being done with a great deal of speed at the moment. From time to time, there’ll be a mistake. This was a mistake—a genuine one—and the Parliamentary Counsel Office have apologised for that. The good news is that, actually, the scheme is getting out there now and getting money to the business people that need it. Media: How will the IRD assess credit risks, and will the IRD be beefed up with more people to assess how viable these businesses are? Hon Grant Robertson: We’re certainly going to be providing more support to Inland Revenue to be able to deliver this scheme—I mean, clearly, obviously, Inland Revenue has a lot of information about businesses, and so it makes it reasonably easy for people to be able to do those investigations. Everyone who applies for the scheme will have to declare that they are a viable business, and there will be an audit process that follows on from that. Media: Over what time frame will this loan be available? Hon Grant Robertson: So at this stage, our intention is to have the scheme open for one month for applications, but we will review that before the end of that month to see how the scheme is rolling out and whether there is a need for it to be available and open any longer than that. Media: How much money have you put aside for it? Hon Grant Robertson: Obviously, it will depend upon the number of businesses who apply for it. We’ve got around 400,000 small and medium enterprises in New Zealand and many of them have taken up the wage subsidy scheme, so the amount of money that we need will be dependent on that. Go Jenna—yep. Media: How high is the risk that small businesses will default on their loan? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, obviously, we would want to see as many small businesses as possible repay, but there is risk that for some of them, they may not be able to come through the other side of COVID-19 and be able to pay this debt. So we’ll factor that into our calculations about what it is—what’s the fiscal cost, as we would describe it. But we would be hopeful that many businesses will be able to pay us back. Media: Are you comfortable taking on that amount of risk on behalf of small businesses? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think it’s really important to get the balance right here. This is a loan scheme; people have to pay it back. It does have an interest rate attached to it—a 3 percent rate for the maximum term of five years—but if it’s paid off in the first year, it’s interest free. So I think we’ve got the balance right here between a scheme that will get money to those small and medium enterprises as quickly as possible but it’s being delivered in a responsible way. Newshub—yeah. Media: What do you say to those businesses who may perhaps already have taken a loan with the bank and are now looking at these comfortable interest rates that the Government’s offering and saying, “Gosh, I wish they had brought that out sooner so that I didn’t already sign up for something that’s going to cost me a lot more in the long run.”? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, obviously those businesses will take the time to consider whether this scheme is one that they want to draw down upon and how that matches with any other debts that they might have, or whatever their needs are. But the scheme is available. As long as you can meet the criteria—which are, effectively, the same criteria as the wage subsidy scheme—along with you making a declaration that you are a viable business, then the scheme is open to those businesses, as it is for all other small and medium enterprises. Media: Minister, is New Zealand going to support Taiwan’s resumption as an observer member of the World Health Organization? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, that’s a matter that I’d need to get some advice on from both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and from the Ministry of Health, so I can’t answer that question for you today. Media: Does New Zealand support Australia’s call for an inquiry into the origins of COVID-19 and the WHO’s response to it? Hon Grant Robertson: Oh look, I think, like all nations, New Zealand is very focused on making sure we get our response right here in New Zealand—that we look after the people of New Zealand. We are very interested in the origins of COVID-19 because it helps explain to us what we need to do to respond to it. Collette, yes. [Interruption] Collette, thanks. Thanks, Collette. Media: Do Government agencies, ministries, health authorities, etc. have the freedom to make comments on COVID or respond to questions on COVID, or do they have to go via Ministers’ offices? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, it will depend a lot on what the question is—I mean, if it’s something that involves a Minister’s office or a particular issue that a Minister has been commenting on, it would be the normal practice around information. We clearly have the “no surprises” policy that operates across Government, but you’d need to give me a specific example. Media: So you wouldn’t say that chief executives of, say, ministries are muzzled in any way from talking to the public about COVID? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, it will just be the normal arrangements that we have—I mean, obviously, you know, chief executives have responsibilities for their departments. You know from the work that you do normally that it’s Ministers who generally front to the media about particular issues. It’ll very much depend on the circumstances of the issue. Media: Will domestic tourism be allowed under Alert Level 2? Hon Grant Robertson: As I just said before, we are looking again at Alert Level 2 and the rules that sit behind that. We want to make sure that we continue to balance the importance of public health with getting the economy going again, and Cabinet will be making its decisions about that over the coming week. Media: Minister, tourism operators say without it, thousands of jobs will be lost. If they can operate safely, why shouldn’t they be able to cater to domestic tourists? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, that’s the very point—is we need to make sure that whatever happens is done safely and upholds the public health guidelines of Alert Level 2. The work that Cabinet’s now going through is to assess what can and can’t happen in detail under Alert Level 2, and we’ll have a lot more to say about that next week. Media: What is it, then, at the high level? Because the existing advice was avoid all non-essential travel that’s inter-regional, but these guys are calling out for domestic tourism. You guys heard it firsthand before we went into lockdown, and you’ve been hearing it throughout—so [Inaudible] a bit of certainty and clarity. Hon Grant Robertson: Well, exactly. That’s what we will provide—that certainty and clarity—as we work through the detail of what Alert Level 2 looks like. We do know that travel has been an issue in terms of transmission of the virus, and so we have to make decisions that uphold our public health guidelines. But we absolutely understand that for domestic tourism, particularly, that’s the lifeline for the tourism industry. We’ll be making those decisions over the coming weeks. Yes, down the front. Media: Sorry, just to follow from Tova’s question there—so does that mean that there’ll be more—so the rules around Alert Level 2 will be released next week to give businesses more of an idea of what’s coming? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, just as we’ve done as we moved towards Alert Level 3, we spent a lot of time as a Government getting exact clarity on what the rules will be at Alert Level 3; we need to do the same thing for Alert Level 2. We’ve put out high-level guidance, but, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, we’re reviewing that guidance to make sure that it both meets our public health guidelines and allows economic activity to the extent that we possibly can. Those decisions will be made and announced in the very near future. Media: Minister, is New Zealand going to see any more repatriation flights to India? Hon Grant Robertson: I don’t have any information about that with me today, Craig, but I do know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade continues to work with New Zealanders overseas to do what they can to support them to return. We’ve obviously had a number of people come back from India and a number of flights, and I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs officials in India continue to do everything they can, but I don’t have specific information. Media: On March 25, which was quite a fateful day for this Government now, you put the idea of a universal basic income on the table, or you said it was on the table. Does it remain on the table? Hon Grant Robertson: I’ve said before that the really important thing when it comes to stimulus in the economy is getting the timing of that right. Right now, when we’re in level 4 and level 3, stimulus packages will only have a limited amount of effect. What we want to do is make sure that we’re planning for the medium and long term for New Zealand, and so we will be looking at all the options that are available to continue to support New Zealanders to both make ends meet but also be part of an economy that grows. Those decisions have not been made, so it’s not a matter of saying something is on the table or off the table. We’re just considering all of our options at this time. Media: Did you consider raising the level of bank guarantee on the existing—of Government guarantee on the existing loan scheme from 80 percent to 100 percent? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, we’re continuing to have a look at what’s possible in terms of the business finance guarantee scheme. The tweaks that we’ve made today address some of the feedback that we’ve had, particularly around the general security agreement requirement. We’re also making some changes for access to particular types of businesses—so we’re bringing farm lending into that scheme, which wasn’t at the beginning—and we’re looking at some other changes in the future to make sure the scheme operates well. So I’ll have a bit more to say about that. I think what we’ve got now is a situation where we’re very aware of those small and medium enterprises—50 FTEs or less. These are the people who, as I said, often have their own personal finances involved. We needed to create a scheme that meant that they could get access to working capital to pay the rent and pay their other bills. The business finance guarantee scheme is more towards the medium enterprise end, and we’re tweaking that to make sure it works as well as it possibly can. Media: One those clusters that are close to being closed—or one has been closed—can you give us detail on which clusters they were, and is that an encouraging sign that we are able to see 28 days without any new cases in some instances? Dr Caroline McElnay: Yes, yes. I’d need to check on the website to see if that’s signalled on the website, because that’s where we’re posting details of the clusters. It’s very encouraging. We’ve determined that a cluster would be officially closed when you’ve got a 28-day period from when the last case was reported, and so the fact that that’s what we’re seeing in more of these clusters is extremely encouraging, and we do expect to be able to close off the other clusters. Media: At which point going forward—maybe in the next week—will we know if level 3 is working, if we have—are we looking—because there’s a two-week transmission period, obviously. So when will you be looking at case numbers and things, and will we know that Kiwis are obeying the rules and we’re not spreading COVID-19 during level 3? Dr Caroline McElnay: Well, we’re continuing to look at the case numbers every day and provide that advice to the Government as to what the cases are telling us. It’s a mixture of—it’s looking really good. We’ve got very low case numbers, but at the same time we are seeing cases being reported. So it just reminds us that we do have to be cautious, and we will continue to be doing that for the next period that we’re in level 3 in order to be able to provide advice as to what level 2 might mean. Hon Grant Robertson: And it’s just important to remember that the key thing here is to break the chain of community transmission. We do not have evidence of widespread community transmission in New Zealand, so that is something that we should all be encouraged by. But as we see the cases come in we continue to look closely at them to understand everything we can about them, and, as we did when we were moving from level 4 to level 3, we want the most up-to-date information to inform the Government’s decision about that. That’s the information that we get provided every day by the Ministry of Health, and so while the signs remain and continue to be encouraging, we will be making that decision with the most up-to-date information. I’ll just come down the front here, where there was one. Media: [Inaudible] people receiving main benefits in the last week. What do you make of those numbers, and how much further can we expect that balloon, I guess, to bubble out? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, as I said last week when we were talking about this, it’s extremely distressing for every single New Zealander who loses their job and find themselves in a situation of going on the jobseeker benefit. What we’re doing is attempting to limit that as much as possible, and the wage subsidy scheme has done a great job of that, but we’ve been very clear from the start that the impact of this crisis will be more significant than the global financial crisis, and that did see unemployment rise sharply as well. What we have to do is work closely with all New Zealanders to support them not only to stay in work but be able to retrain to get new jobs and new skills, and support the sectors that will provide those. That will be a focus within the Budget. Media: Dr McElnay, on Wednesday, Dr Bloomfield urged all New Zealanders to get their flu shots, saying vaccines were widely available. However, a PHO that represents hundreds of doctors in Auckland has told its members that on advice of the health ministry, vaccine stocks will likely run out again next week. Why are you giving what appears to be misleading information to the public? Dr Caroline McElnay: We’ve seen a fantastic response to the influenza immunisation programme this year, and we’ve given out more vaccines than have ever been distributed. We continue to get more vaccine coming into the country, but there has been a request from the sector, as well as information that we provided to the sector, that if there are any potential for any delay in receiving vaccines that the sector have that information. So there was information that was given out to the sector to say we are working with PHARMAC to get the vaccine out there. We will get you the vaccine that you need, but be prepared that you may have not have that vaccine at the time that you actually are planning to use it. So that was a very specific request from the sector that they have that heads-up, but we do know that we’ve got more vaccine coming in, and we’re hoping that there won’t be any issue with any delay. Hon Grant Robertson: Just to be very clear about that, there are 700,000 vaccine doses around the country that have not yet been administered—so they are in the community. There is availability of flu vaccine. As at last week, 587,000 people had been vaccinated. That compares to 290,000 people on the same date in 2019. So with those 700,000 vaccines still available in the community to actually be administered, we are confident that we have the supplies we need. We’ve already vaccinated far more people than we would have in the past. What the communications that are coming through from the Ministry of Health indicate is that there is more vaccine on the way, and we’re asking— Media: No, it says that it will likely run out again next week. It’s not necessarily just that it’s— Hon Grant Robertson: Well, the communications we’ve had from the Ministry of Health are that there are 700,000 vaccines out there. There are more on the way. That’s simply a piece of information to the sector around the way in which the vaccines have already been delivered into the communities and what will be coming in the future. Media: Sorry, just to follow up on that—this PHO was saying they will likely run out again next week. That was the advice from the Ministry of Health, so how can Dr Bloomfield argue that they’re widely available? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, because they are widely available—because there are 700,000 vaccines in the community. What this is about—as we’ve discussed on quite a few times at these press conferences—is around the distribution within a DHB, and, clearly, if there is a particular PHO that’s saying this, then we need to be talking to that DHB about how those doses that are already out there can be administered. Media: One GP we’ve spoken to has cancelled 50 flu jab bookings for next week due to the uncertainty. Is that good enough, and doesn’t that just reaffirm the position from the Medical Association that the national flu campaign has been a complete debacle? Hon Grant Robertson: No, I don’t accept that at all. When you’ve got a situation where you’ve got 587,000 people being vaccinated compared with 290,000 at the same time last year, that actually represents a campaign that is out there and is working. Clearly, we need to continue to ensure that the distribution chains within our health system work well, but I actually think with that level of vaccination and a commitment that more is coming, we are continuing the kind of campaign that New Zealanders would expect. Thomas, we haven’t had any from you. Media: Dr McElnay, just a question from our news room: have you got an update on the number of suicides that have occurred since lockdown, and, if so, what is the policy regarding testing them for COVID-19, and is there a policy in terms of mental health checks on vulnerable patients during the alert levels? Dr Caroline McElnay: I don’t actually have information specifically around suicides, but we can provide that information for you. What I can say, though, is that as part of our surveillance strategy to make sure that we’re identifying and capturing any COVID-19 infections that might be out there, any sudden deaths that occur in the community that are subject to a coroner’s inquiry—that testing for COVID occurs if it is felt that that person could have died as a result of that. So that’s an extra piece of information that we have to tell us about COVID-19 out in the community. Media: Minister, just a question in terms of the business finance guarantee scheme: how much more risk are taxpayers going to be exposed to by removing that requirement to have a general security agreement, and do you expect that even if that requirement is removed, banks will still have a requirement themselves and take some security from businesses? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, at this time, our risk remains the 80 percent risk that we announced at the beginning. We’ve been clear that what we wanted from the scheme was for viable but vulnerable businesses to be supported. Clearly, there are some businesses that banks won’t support, and we mentioned that at start—for example, those who are on the watch list—but what we wanted from the scheme was for banks to apply it in such a way that businesses that perhaps they might have not processed previously they would, as long as they were still viable. In terms of what they will now do that we’ve removed the requirement for the general security agreement, it will still be up to banks, but, as I said at the start, we are continuing to look at further tweaks to the scheme. Media: Just a follow-up, in terms of the extra risk that taxpayers are taking on, if a bank—sorry. If a business collapses, then taxpayers might not be able to take that business owner’s house, which I know is—it’s an unfortunate and horrible situation, but you, no doubt, have to balance taxpayer risk as well as— Hon Grant Robertson: Bear in mind, the schemes are being delivered by the banks, so in the end it remains up to the bank to make decisions about what kind of security they will take on, but what we’re saying is the Government is not requiring that in terms of our 80 percent underwriting. But we’re not in a position of being the people who look at a particular type of security. I do think it’s really important. It is one of the reasons why we have put in place today the small business loan scheme—is because we want those smaller businesses, many of whom often are financed off the back, perhaps, of a second mortgage on their home, to get support that does not require them to concern themselves about that, and if they can pay it back within a year, it’s interest-free. It’s about cash flow for those small businesses that play such a big part in our economy. Media: I have a slightly indelicate question on behalf of a colleague. So thousands of people have been going to the beach, but councils have been told to keep toilets closed, which has seen people relieving themselves in the sand dunes. Can you please clear up the messages around allowing regional travel to beaches, but not opening the facilities to cope with that? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I think we’ll probably go back to the beginning here— that people need to show a sense of personal responsibility. I think we all know what’s right and wrong when it comes to relieving oneself at the beach. In terms of a general comment around what people should be doing, we continue to want them to stay close to home. Under level 3 there has been some relaxation to allow you to travel within your region, but that is for short-term recreation. It’s also to make sure that there are some further options available for people, but the first and best preference is to stay local. I could say some other things, but I won’t. [Interruption] Sorry, we’re just down the front, then we’ll come up here, Jenna. Media: Minister, Lawyers for Climate Change have written to you and other Ministers. They’re worried that the shovel-ready projects criteria doesn’t address things like gas emissions and the effects of climate change, which they’re warning could be unlawful. What assurances can you give to them that that is being considered in future decisions being made on these projects? Hon Grant Robertson: So the decisions on what projects we adopt will be made by Cabinet, and Cabinet will be operating under the plans that we’ve already announced, and one of the core ones of those is the importance of a transition to a low-carbon economy. So the decisions we make will be supportive of those goals that the Government has had from the beginning, and we showed that with our New Zealand Upgrade Programme, which had a mixture of projects, that—yes—did include some roading projects but it included rail. It included getting rid of some of those boilers in our schools and our hospitals. It includes cycling. It included walking projects. So that’s a sign, I think, you can see of the fact that when we think about infrastructure, we have in mind all of the things that matter: creating jobs, making sure we can transition to that low-carbon environment, growing productivity, and keeping the economy moving. We continue to balance those in our decisions about the infrastructure projects. Media: And just a question from one of our regional reporters: they’ve had a specific plea from West Coast mayors that they want to be allowed to go into level 2 sooner. What do you say to them—because they’re really struggling there at the moment. Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, look, I think it’s really important that we continue to stay the course on level 3. New Zealanders know the great gains we made in level 4, and we need to lock those in through level 3, and that’s been because, as a country of 5 million people, we have decided, collectively, that we’re all in this together. And so I can understand in communities like the West Coast they’re saying “We want to get on with it.”— we all do—but we’ve got to stay the course in level 3. As the Prime Minister said yesterday, we haven’t ruled out the possibility in the future that there could be regional differences, but for now this is something that we’re all in together. You know, I also do bear in mind that— and I’m sure the mayors of the West Coast will understand this—our very first death from COVID-19 was from someone on the West Coast. So I think it’s a reminder for all of us that this virus can spread, and spread easily, and that means that we have to stay vigilant under level 3. Jenna. Media: ANZ and mortgage brokers are warning more New Zealanders will default on their loans like mortgages in the coming months. Are you concerned about that? Hon Grant Robertson: Oh, I’m very concerned for all New Zealanders that they have the resources to be able to pay their mortgages, and that’s why one of the very early things that was agreed with banks was the mortgage deferral scheme. It’s why we’re continuing to provide a range of support through the tax system and through the small business cash flow support we announced today. So, you know, this is a situation where there’s going to be a big impact on the New Zealand economy, but the Government is doing all it can to support people to be able to pay their bills like their mortgages. Media: Have you been given any forecast on the number of defaults and the financial cost of that, and are you offering any help to banks to cover those losses— Hon Grant Robertson: Well, obviously, the business finance guarantee scheme is a significant contribution from the Government to carrying risk for those loans. The banks have very strong balance sheets in New Zealand, and while they’re under pressure—like all companies are—they are making arrangements with their customers right now for interest-only payments for deferral of mortgage payments. I don’t have specific information about the particular impacts of that, but we all know that this is an economic shock that’s going to affect a lot of New Zealanders. Media: Another slightly random question from a colleague— Hon Grant Robertson: The day for it. Media: —there’s a company down south who is creating T-shirts, and they’ve actually got Dr Bloomfield’s face on it with the words “Curve Crusher”. They’re using it for charity, though—$50,000 has actually been raised for Women’s Refuge. What do you think about this innovative idea, and would you consider buying one? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, I think, you know, it’s fantastic that New Zealanders, in a time of crisis like this, are raising money for a cause like Women’s Refuge, and I think we should all be really proud of the fact that in a time of crisis, people come together like that. I’m very conscious of the fact that Dr Bloomfield has become somewhat of a cult figure in New Zealand, and from time to time that means you end up on T-shirts and tea towels and so on. At this stage, I haven’t found the website address to make that order, and I’d have to make sure they had the right sizes available as well. Craig. Media: Dr McElnay, just a question on health workers with COVID-19. I think it was last weekend, there was a nurse at Burwood that was reported as positive. Do we have any details yet on how they got it? Dr Caroline McElnay: I don’t have those details to hand, but those are certainly situations where we investigate fully to find out how they might have been exposed to the virus. Media: And is there a time line on the current investigation out of Waitematā—how long you expect that might take? Dr Caroline McElnay: We expect to get a further update later today. As I’ve said, the first case was notified over the weekend, so there was some initial investigation that happened there. Then, there was a case yesterday, and then again today. So there’s been extensive further testing, and we expect to get further results either today or tomorrow. Hon Grant Robertson: We’ll just take a couple more—Ben. Media: Minister, now that the final details around the Cannabis Legislation and Control Bill are released, will you be voting for it? Hon Grant Robertson: At a personal level, yes, I will be, in the referendum—that’s a decision and a position I’ve held for a very long time—but this is a personal choice for New Zealanders, and what the release of the bill means is we’re at the next stage of New Zealanders being able to make up their mind on it. One thing I would say—and this is a personal view—is, for me, it is not the most important issue that’s facing New Zealand or facing me, and while I have a moral stance on it, I’m one individual. Now is the opportunity for New Zealanders to understand the bill. There will be a large public education campaign run about it, which will enable people to understand it as much as possible. Media: Have you seen public polling that puts Labour at 55 percent at the moment? Hon Grant Robertson: Oh, I’m not interested in polls at all at the moment. Tova. Media: On that, though, the poll results have been— Hon Grant Robertson: Could be the same answer coming your way, but—yes? Media: —for the National Party—well, maybe if you could respond to the National Party on this, because the poll results for them are 29 percent, and the National Party—Simon Bridges is saying Labour should focus on getting New Zealand back to work, not leaking dodgy numbers. What’s your response to that? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, we are focused completely on making sure that we support New Zealanders through COVID-19, and I’m very, very confident the poll coming into the public arena had nothing to do with the Labour Party. Media: Does 29 percent for National sound like dodgy numbers to you? Hon Grant Robertson: I’m just not interested in polls at the moment. Thomas. Media: Minister Robertson, just a question from our news room. You will have seen the pictures of a hundred people at a tangi in Canterbury. What would you expect police and health authorities to do about it, particularly in light of the fact that local police are saying they’re reluctant to police a tangi? Hon Grant Robertson: Look, I think everybody will understand just how difficult this issue is. For all of us, we’re going to have people in our lives who we know who, potentially, are going to be facing the loss of a family member or a friend at this time, and it’s incredibly hard. We’ve put the rules in place we had around limiting people who go to tangi or who go to funerals for good public health reasons. In the particular case that’s here, the family said about having a tangi with only 10 or fewer people attending, and it blew out to a larger number. That’s really disappointing. These rules have been put in place in consultation with groups within the Māori community in particular, and so we urge people in really difficult circumstances to stick to the rules here, and I’m sure the police will take a compassionate approach. But the rules are the rules, and people do need to stand by them. Media: Minister, I just have another question on the business finance guarantee scheme— Hon Grant Robertson: My favourite topic, so yes. Media: Yes—I love it. Will agricultural businesses be able to get loans under the scheme—is that what you’re saying? Hon Grant Robertson: That’s correct. So that’s the change that we made. Initially, they were taken out of the scheme because it was felt by the banks and ourselves that they were dealt with through other products that the banks might have, but we think, in order to make the scheme as valuable as possible, it’s time to open up to those businesses. Thanks everybody. Have a good weekend.     Last modified: 4 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The daily COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 12 May media conference Last modified: 12 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Kia ora koutou katoa. Welcome, everyone. I’ll begin by handing over to Dr Bloomfield for a health update, and then I’ll share a few updates from the Government this morning. Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. Today, we’re reporting no new cases of COVID-19. This means New Zealand’s confirmed and probable COVID-19 total cases remains at 1,497 and, of these, 1,147 are confirmed. We now have 1,398 people who are reported as having recovered from COVID-19. This is an increase of 12 on yesterday, and 93 percent of our cases are now considered recovered. Today, there are just two people receiving hospital-level care, in Middlemore and North Shore hospitals, and neither is in ICU. There are also no additional deaths to report today, and we still have the 16 significant clusters, four of which are now closed and a number of which have not had any cases between 14 and 28 days, so they are on their way to being closed off as well. Yesterday, our laboratories processed 2,893 tests, bringing the total number of tests completed to date to 197,084. I actually was on a Zoom call earlier on today with one of our primary health organisations and a number of GPs down in the Southern DHB area to thank them for the work they have been doing. That particular area, they’ve taken over 10,000 swabs, and the effort that goes in for each clinical person to dress up in PPE to do the swab, to ensure the paperwork is done properly, to get it to the lab, and then the lab staff as well. So every one of those nearly 200,000 swabs, which have been a pillar of our efforts and to support us going into Alert Level 2, has been work by a number of people, and I just want to, again, acknowledge that work. In terms of hospital visits under Alert Level 2, an update on that, and, obviously, our highest priority as we go into Alert Level 2 is to continue to protect visitors, patients, and staff while, of course, enabling those very important human interactions that are so essential, especially when someone is unwell. On the ground, visits are managed by district health boards, and there will be flexibility on the part of individual clinicians and/or managers of services, but the general principle in our high-risk areas, which include ED, intensive care, and maternity, will be one visitor still and one visit per day, while in other parts of the hospital, still one visitor at a time but more than one person is able to visit during the day. As I say, there will be flexibility on the part of hospital staff in response to individual circumstances as well. I do encourage people to just check also with the hospital around visiting hours, because, obviously, those visits will need to occur during the usual visiting hours, and be mindful when you go of those core public health principles of distancing by two metres, hand hygiene, and, of course, do not visit if you are unwell. In terms of the section 70 order, I’ve just issued an update, or I’m issuing an amended order, which will be available later today on the Ministry of Health’s website, and this order specifically allows people to enter businesses to prepare for the move to Alert Level 2 on Thursday. Finally, today is international day of the nurse, and in 2020 it is part of an international year of the nurse and an international year of the midwife as well, so we are celebrating our nurses now more than ever. It’s very clear that having a good, strong, well-trained nursing workforce improves health outcomes for individuals, our whānau, and communities. Every day, nurses have played a critical role as part of our COVID response over the last few months, in addition to the work they do routinely providing fantastic care for New Zealanders. I’m sure all of New Zealand will join me in thanking our nurses today and, indeed, every day. Kia kaha, kia māia, kia manawanui. Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora, Ashley. Can I just reiterate the comments made by Dr Bloomfield about our nurses. I have to say, even before COVID-19, I received quite a few letters where people who have been through our public health system really want to acknowledge the workforce within our system, and I often will get a message saying how kind, how professional, how supportive our nursing workforce and our clinical workforce are within our public health system. I don’t often get a chance to pass on that feedback, but today seems like the day to do it. Can I also acknowledge that we have a huge nursing workforce trained in New Zealand working abroad, and who are doing the hard yards through this pandemic as well, and we want to acknowledge all of the Jennies all around the world. Earlier today, the Government announced the biggest ever increase in funding for district health boards, as well as additional funding to support DHBs to deliver more services, more surgeries, more procedures, radiology scans, and specialist appointments to help clear the COVID-19 backlog. We’re investing over $4 billion more into our health system, because the lesson from COVID is that we need to be prepared and that a strong health response is the best way to protect jobs and, of course, ultimately be in a position to get our economy moving again as well. We never know when the next virus or health emergency is going to come, but when it arrives we know that it pays to have a world-class health system in place to deal with it. In fact, that is a commitment we should be making all the time to New Zealanders. When we were elected, we did inherit a health system that did have a number of long-term challenges, not the least of which was some years of underfunding—and public health had experienced that acutely—but also issues with infrastructure and facilities. Over our two previous Budgets, we’ve made a number of investments in health and health capital, and as part of rebuilding together, our Budget steps that investment up even further. Alongside our announcement of increased funding for PHARMAC on Sunday, it is clear that our rebuilding together Budget will also ensure that our health system is resourced to get us through and offer even more care and support to New Zealanders. The strength of our health response means also that we’re able to get to level 2 and move our economy into a phase where it’s opening up again even quicker. Central to this is helping our small businesses get up and on their feet, and supporting them as they look to operate from Thursday for many. To assist with their recovery, the first tax refunds in our $3 billion tax package have been paid, with cash flowing into the hands of businesses. To date, 676 businesses have applied for refunds and payments worth more than $62 million. This package, announced last month, is the largest support package to business via the tax system in modern history. Today, I can also confirm that the small business cash-flow loan scheme is officially open. In just a couple of weeks, IRD officials built a new system to process applications for loans that will be interest free if repaid in the first year. These will be a source of working capital for businesses, helping with things like fixed costs like rent. The scheme went live last night and is able to receive applications from today. Payments will be made within five days of a loan being approved, so whether you’re a sole trader wanting to borrow, for instance, up to $11,800 interest free, or you employ 50 FTE staff and want to borrow up to $100,000 interest free, go online to the inland revenue site and you’ll find all the details there. And finally, our wage subsidy scheme has now paid out $10.7 billion to 1.75 million New Zealanders. That ultimately is what it has taken to make sure that we keep those people employed to their place of work so they can be at the ready when their businesses open back up. Finally, on public transport, with more people returning to work under level 2, I do just want to make a bit of comment on public transport and people getting to and from work. You’ll remember when we talked about the Alert Level 2 framework, I really encouraged employees to have conversations with their employers around whether or not they’ll continue working from home or whether they’ll be coming into their place of work, and I really want to encourage those conversations to be had, to discuss whether or not there are options around flexible starting and flexible finishing times to perhaps space out necessary commutes. I imagine some workforces will be looking to lock in the productivity gains that were made when people were working from home, and that’s one way that they can do that. I know there’s some good guidance that will be issued, but, in summary, plan your trip, keep your distance—and that will be required on public transport—and, of course, track your journey as well. And, as always, if you are sick, stay at home. I would encourage patience across the board, though, particularly in those first few days of level 2. As we have with every level, it will probably take a period of adjustment, particularly as people work out the best time to travel on routes that allow distancing. Finally, I’ve seen a bit of commentary overnight and this morning from businesses and people about how they’re preparing for the next stage of life, and I’d sum up what I’ve seen, basically, with Kiwi businesses and Kiwis just getting on with it. Cardrona ski field, for an example, is getting ready for skiers to hit the slopes in late June, and working with the Government on standards to set up zones around areas where groups may come together like near chair lifts, planning for a domestic market, and ensuring that they’ve got really strong contact tracing in place. A Wellington hairdresser is doubly pleased she can reopen on Thursday and has made it this far without needing to make any of her team redundant because of the wage subsidy. Others have written to me about catching up with their wider families, conscious about those small gatherings and keeping it small, and I have to say that’s something I’m looking forward to as well. All right, we’re ready to take questions. Media: Under level 2, how do you justify allowing 100 people to go to the movies but not to a funeral? PM: Again, the whole definition is whether or not you’re coming together to be with others, and there are circumstances where people just aren’t in the same space in order to mix and mingle, and that’s the risky behaviour. Look back again on the areas where New Zealand has had trouble with COVID. It’s been weddings, it’s been bars, it’s been social gatherings, and so that’s where we’ve put the limits in place. Media: But people can socially distance at funerals as well, and they’ve waited until level 2. Some of them have bodies in morgues, waiting until level 2 to be able to properly mourn and grieve, and all the indications you gave last week were that they’d be able to do that, and then yesterday saying it’s going to be capped at 10—do you recognise how much of a blow that is to those grieving families? PM: I have always said, through all of this, that the thing that I have found, as a human, the hardest in all of this has been funerals and tangihanga. I’ve known people who have lost very close family members, and I can’t imagine trying to grieve through a global pandemic for a loved one without being able to be together with others. But the one thing I also know is that funerals and tangi are a place where you want to comfort people. It is your natural instinct. That’s why we come together. And the idea that we would force people to not be able to comfort one another, to support one another, is equally a very, very hard thing to comprehend. Media: Let people make that decision for themselves. PM: Equally, we’re doing the same for every area where these are natural life events. We’ve made the same hard call for weddings, funerals, any gathering of note. I spoke to someone last week who turned 100 and had no gathering. This is across the board. We know this is causing pain, but we equally have tried to be really consistent, not see a situation where people really question why they can’t come together and others can. But this has been very hard. Media: Winston Peters is now saying that you could have a wake after a funeral in a hall with 100 people, as long as they’re properly socially distanced. If your Cabinet doesn’t even understand the rules, how can you expect the country to? PM: No, you’ve heard me clearly outline them. This is only intended, we hope, to be a very, very short period that we’re asking New Zealanders to, unfortunately, stay with us on what is a very difficult thing to do, but the intention is it will get us there faster to when people can come together again. Again, this is all based on the advice of Health, and you can imagine I feel a real obligation to make sure that we’re listening to that advice, so perhaps this is something I can also ask the director-general to comment on. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. Again, we looked very carefully at the sorts of activities that were higher risk as we go into to Alert Level 2, with the intention of making sure we are keeping people safe, we are maintaining the gains we have made, and with a clear expectation and obligation on us to provide additional advice to Government in two weeks’ time about increasing the numbers up. And that’s what is expected and intended. Media: Did you consider making an exemption for tangi and funerals? PM: Yeah, we did think about whether or not there was a way to do things differently, and, again, as I look around, I think we can see that, actually, everyone struggled with this globally, but probably what people have also seen is that there have been outbreaks as a result of funerals around the world too. But yes, we did think about it, and it was just a very, very difficult thing, to find a way where you’d have carved-out exemptions for specific areas that are very similar to other kinds of gatherings, and, ultimately, we want to protect people. Media: What about church services—not necessarily funerals or weddings? Churches are saying that they are willing to enact social distancing. And you can go to a movie [Inaudible] but you can’t go to a church service [Inaudible]. PM: And we did have good discussion around that as well. Ultimately, some of the feedback that we had from those even within church community was that, actually, it is a place for fellowship, it is a place for community to come together, and if we were building rules that said ultimately we were trying to stop people on large scales interacting with one another closely, then that is where that fell into that same category. If you think about it very simply, about whether or not you’re going into a place where you know other people and are likely to congregate with them, that’s really where that line falls, and that’s why we’ve used evenly across the board the rule of 10. Media: The Attorney-General suggested that there was a case for religious gathering even under level 3— PM: Sorry what was that? Media: The Attorney-General suggested there was a case for religious gatherings under level 3 because there’s a restriction on religious freedom, kind of, broader issue here. Now we’re going to level 2 and there’s still this restriction. Are you worried about that? PM: No, no, because as you’ll find, they’re also equally weighing up the issue of health against that as well. What I would say is, you know, this is something that I personally gave good strong consideration to. You know, this is in my background as well. I was brought up in a family that practised its faith religiously, and so I did think about this a lot, and it’s something that has weighed on my mind. But equally, in Australia you see similar guidelines and rules in other parts of the world all for the same reason, because it’s all based on evidence. Media: Dr Bloomfield, how many of the compassionate cases to visit the dying have now been approved? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Now, I’m sorry; I haven’t got that information with me, but we’ll provide that on our website later on or we can get it to you later. Media: And would you describe contact tracing, or our capacity now, as gold standard? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, I would, and I think the latest data—and we’re getting more each week from our public health units, and so we’re aggregating that over the last two or three weeks—suggests that the key indicator, which is that identifying and isolating close contacts within 48 hours, at least 80 percent of them, we are achieving that. Furthermore, we are continuing to increase our capacity out in our public health units to be able to do more and more. Currently at 185 cases per day, and we are targeting the number of 500 over the next six weeks. Media: Prime Minister, you said yesterday that you were comfortable with the support being provided to migrants in New Zealand who had been affected by COVID-19. How does that tally with the news that a family of seven was given a handful of tins of beans and spaghetti and a few other small goods and told that they were meant to make that last for about two weeks of lockdown? PM: I am comfortable with the support being provided where that support is being provided as we would expect, and that does not meet my expectations. Twenty-seven million was put into making sure that those services on the ground, who knew where the need was, had the flexibility to provide both food and support for accommodation to house people if they needed that as well. Whilst I can’t comment on the specifics, I do understand that locally the team is trying to get in touch with the family in question, because what they’ve had reported to them doesn’t meet their expectations either. Media: We heard from another woman, another migrant, a pregnant woman, who when she asked the local civil defence group for help was told, “We can get a food parcel to you in five working days and that will be all you get—a one-off—because of the demand.” Again, not talking about the particulars, but in principle, wouldn’t it make more sense to deliver direct cash support like a benefit, as we do for other New Zealanders in difficult situations? PM: Yeah, and, again, that doesn’t meet my expectations either. As you’ve heard me just say, we did support directly on the ground with over $20 million provided on top of what already was available to those community organisations to beef up what they were able to do as quickly as possible. So not only did we have local civil defence playing that role at a local level, and they delivered thousands and thousands of food parcels and support; we also, of course, had NGOs. We also had Whānau Ora playing an incredible role delivering packs to families as well. So we were really looking to mobilise those support networks that could get food out the fastest or other forms of support, and we gave them the flexibility to do that as well. Media: Prime Minister, why aren’t you treating these stranded migrants in the same way that you’d be treating other people in need who happen to be residents—what’s the difference? PM: Yeah. Well, of course there’s a difference through our Work and Income legal framing, just quite simply—how they are treated when it comes to our benefit system—and that is the reason why someone when they have a visa into New Zealand, or are applying for one, are required to demonstrate that they have the ability to provide themselves with a level of support should they ever need it. Now, of course, these circumstances are extraordinary, and we wouldn’t expect that necessarily to hold for a long period where someone is deprived of work or in the situation we’ve seen with lockdown, which is why we looked to provide local support that wasn’t just food but had the flexibility for accommodation in any other essential needs that group may have had. Media: Prime Minister, as we’ve seen—as you’ll be well aware—in other countries, the easing of restrictions has resulted in flare-ups. What are you both most concerned about at level 2? What will be keeping you up at night? PM: Yeah, and flare-ups are a concern—second waves are a concern. You know, I start my day reading the international news, and we’ve seen coverage, obviously, of Germany. In the past, we’ve seen the coverage in Singapore; more recent days, a bit of a discussion, perhaps to a lesser degree, but around patterns in South Korea. Of course we worry about that, and that’s why we’re making sure that we prioritise trying to get people back into work, get their incomes flowing again, but also that we manage the risk, and that has meant some hard decisions but hopefully ones that are balanced and look after as many Kiwis as possible. Media: Just to tourism, the tourist leaders who spoke at the committee this morning were saying they need clarity on the wage subsidy now; they can’t wait till Thursday. What assurances can you give them that help is on the way? PM: You will have heard me say yesterday, very clearly, there will be additional support for business particularly affected by the ongoing alert framework and who are struggling to operate at full strength under a COVID environment. I’ve also pointed to the Budget, but to tourism specifically I’d say not only did a survey from the tourism industry suggest that over 80 percent were accessing the wage subsidy already; we also have looked at specific redeployment support to get their workforce into other opportunities, and you will see a tourism sector package delivered from this Government as well. Media: The other concern they raised was in terms of the language you used talking about our borders. Saying that our borders would be closed for some time yet has scared off a lot of people from booking flights and things like that for next year. Can you offer any other assurance, I guess, to those people of when they may be able to start getting people from overseas? PM: Yeah. I mean, of course I want New Zealanders to be able to move freely as soon as we can safely do that, and I want those from overseas to be able to be in a position to safely come and experience New Zealand’s hospitality again, but what we’re having to prioritise at the moment is the ability of people domestically, within New Zealand, to work, play, and experience New Zealand as freely as they can, and that does mean, for now, having to keep restrictions at our border. The trade-off would have been lift border restrictions and us all live with restrictions in our day-to-day lives. I acknowledge that is a trade-off, but what I hope we can do for tourism is get domestic tourism moving and also be in a position, as soon as we’re able, to at least get the Australian market moving too. Media: Do you regret not letting DIY stores like Bunnings stay open for the wider public during lockdown now that they’re closing stores? People will be wanting that sort of material. PM: Well, of course, at level 3, I saw that the likes of Bunnings were opening click and collect shop options. Many of them, of course, have trade windows where they were able to operate in that way. So that was something that they were able to adapt to. Of course, online purchasing as well was able to open up at that level too. Media: Prime Minister, just to clarify, the Sport NZ CEO on MediaWorks, on AM Show today, said that the gathering limit of 10 people would apply to contact sports, but the press conference yesterday seemed to imply that it wouldn’t. Was he mistaken? Are full-contact sports allowed to happen? PM: Yeah, happy to clarify that. So professional and semi-professional is sorted and will be resuming. More broadly, on just sport generally, what we’re looking to do is actually just give certainty generally on the date that it’s likely that those community codes are wanting to restart. I understand we should probably be able to do that later today, and that will help people with planning more generally. Media: But if on Thursday night someone wants to go and play a rugby game with 29 other people, that’s fine? PM: Again, actually, some of those community codes have indicated to us that they’re not ready to open up again. So I do want to make sure—and please, if you’ll stick with me here. I would like to let the Minister for sport give that clarity this afternoon around what dates those codes will be opening up. Media: On tangihanga, is it possible for multiple groups to pay their respects as long as there’s only 10 people there at any given time? PM: Yeah, so if we have 10 people—sticking with groups of 10—then that would be within the rules. What we don’t want is them all then to come together at a conclusion—so a large wake or a large gathering afterwards. But yes, if you do have someone who is lying at marae and people are coming in in groups, then, yes, that is something that could be managed and would be within the guidelines that have been set. Media: Prime Minister, do you agree with—just your thoughts on the hongi, because Deputy Prime Minister Winston Peters had some interesting comments today when speaking about it. He said that cultures need to adapt or die. Do you think it can be sustained in a post-COVID world? PM: Do you know, my view is that I have seen iwi leaders actually determine for themselves how they are going to keep their people safe and what they wish to do with cultural practice in this environment, and I give complete support to that and have complete faith in that process. Media: On a separate issue, China’s repudiated New Zealand overnight for supporting Taiwan’s membership bid for the WHO. So I guess, I mean, do you consider these warnings like a diplomatic going through of the motions or is it an actual threat to the bilateral relationship, as China claims? PM: I’ll just take this as an opportunity to reiterate the position that I did again this morning and particularly New Zealand’s relationship. Through a number of years, we’ve always taken a one China policy, and that continues to be the case. I think what we’re referring to here is really our ability to learn from places during COVID-19 and thereafter and their health responses, in the same way that actually the world learnt a lot from China’s response. Their use of a lockdown in Wuhan demonstrated the ability to control the spread of the virus in a way that probably saved a large number of lives. Equally, a place like Taiwan has used some particular approaches that have demonstrated also success in their management. So really, for us, it’s about being able to gather that knowledge, but it fundamentally does not change our policy with regards to one China. Media: Was it appropriate for the Deputy Prime Minister last week to tell the— PM: Oh, without being called—Jackson. Media: Sorry, Prime Minister. Was it appropriate for Winston Peters last week to tell the Chinese ambassador to listen to her master? PM: To what, sorry? Media: Listen to her master. PM: I would like to see the quote in full before being drawn on comment on that. Media: Back on the wage subsidy, have you waited too long to give a signal of its successor to businesses? Because they’ve now got four weeks left, and a lot of them are having to give four-week redundancy notice periods. PM: Again, this runs through till beginning June. It was a 12-week payment, and it’s only, of course, running out on 9 June for those who took it at the very, very beginning. We actually had a large number who took it much later in that 12-week period, and so were receiving the subsidy for longer than just that beginning. Also, of course, it does help that we have that certainty now for businesses around where we are in the alert framework and their ability to operate again as well, which also was something that they were looking for, for certainty. Media: But a lot of those ones that would have taken it at the beginning is tourism businesses, and they are screaming out for some kind of certainty. They said they needed it last week, not the Budget this week. PM: Yeah, and we’ve given a clear signal of our intention there, but also the fact that there will be sector-specific support for tourism, and other areas we know have experienced a big hit. But what we also need to do is work alongside tourism as they rebuild for those specific sectors. Domestic, we will continue to work on trans-Tasman, and then a longer-term plan around our re-entry into a global market. Media: Will one of those sector-specific packages be hospitality? PM: Again, of course, we’re setting out a path where, hopefully, hospitality can get back up and running. Some of those more generic frameworks for support like the wage subsidy have been important to that sector. But when you think about those that were first to close, actually they are ones who have relied on crowds and audiences. So the likes of the arts, obviously the media, aviation—and you’ve already seen some support specifically rolled out there. Media: Given we don’t know the outcome yet of the review into the COVID-19 outbreak at Waitakere Hospital, was this a cluster waiting to happen, as has been reported by one media outlet today? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I think they’re separate. I would comment on the latter. I don’t think it was a cluster waiting to happen. The cluster happened around the aged residential care facility, and part of the care of the residents, because they couldn’t staff the facility, was to bring them into Waitakere Hospital. I did speak with the acting chief executive of Waitematā DHB yesterday, and I’m expecting to see the draft report later today, and I know the plan is to make that public this week. As I said yesterday, the important thing here is we learn from each of the instances we have had so that we can then update our approach and policies nationally, which is what we’re intending to do here. Media: Dr Bloomfield, can you explain why St Margaret’s rest home residents weren’t immediately taken to North Shore Hospital? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, because the level of care it was felt they required was appropriate for Waitakere. It was also closer to their whānau in their community. Media: The Electoral Commission this morning—they announced a whole range of measures to try and keep the public safe when it comes to voting on election day—physical distancing, PPE for electoral staff. Have you given any thought to how this will affect your campaign and being on the election trail running up to the election? PM: Actually, only, really, if I’m honest, only in passing. You can imagine why the election feels, in terms of days, weeks, and months, a lifetime away. As probably you’d imagine, in the middle of a global pandemic, it’s not the thing that I have yet turned my mind to. What I am hopeful of is that we will be in a position to even have a greater degree of interaction with one another then than we are now, and I think that’s what we’re all working towards. But to be honest, I haven’t put my mind to it. Media: Prime Minister, was Winston Peters incorrect today when he said that after a tangi, groups of more than 10 could gather in a hall or they could book in individual bookings at restaurants that could gather? Are the rules quite confusing if Mr Peters himself is getting it wrong? PM: Sorry, did you just ask that of me, or Dr Bloomfield? Media: Yeah, you. PM: Of me. As I’ve already clarified, the rules around group bookings is, again, that consistency. If you are coming together for any social gathering—any social gathering—it’s groups of 10, and we do have to apply that consistency. It would be totally unfair to have any kind of wiggle room when we are asking so much of those, particularly, who wish to grieve in larger groups to give any leniency for any other group in that regard. Media: Why do you think Winston Peters got it wrong? PM: Again, I wasn’t here for the stand-up; I don’t want to make any assumptions about what he did or didn’t say on those guidelines. Media: Dr Bloomfield, yesterday the health ministry said there are two people in hospital with COVID-19. However, we know for a fact that at 1.30 p.m. yesterday, there were five confirmed COVID patients in North Shore Hospital alone. Are you being deliberately misleading to try and make the data look better? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Definitely not. In fact, we’ve been very open with the data to date, and, in fact, one of the things—for example, we’ve included all our probable cases in our overall total, which many countries don’t do, and we’ve been very inclusive in terms of our deaths. Even when there were negative swabs and there was some potential uncertainty around the cause of death, we’ve gone with the clinician’s view. The issue here is—and it was the same down in Canterbury for the Rosewood rest homers—where people have been put into a hospital setting but are not there because they need hospital-level care but purely because of staffing issues within the facility, then we haven’t counted them in our numbers of people requiring hospital-level care. Media: Do you think that the health ministry then needs to change the way it words or categorises COVID patients in hospital for the benefit of the public? It can appear misleading. PM: But if we were to say that we had five people then in hospital care, that assumes that they require that level of care, and perhaps may lead to those assumptions around whether or not someone’s—their health status. Most people if they hear hospital care will make an assumption about their health status around COVID, rather than just whether or not they need to be in a particular facility for care. Media: Are you able to clarify, then, in total how many patients are actually in hospital, in total, around the country, regardless of whether they were put in hospital due to staff issues at the previous place of care? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: We can absolutely do that. What I would also point out is that St Margaret’s and many aged residential care facilities have hospital-level care as one of the areas that they do. So they do provide a high level of care, but these people are not in hospital. So it’s a similar thing there, but we’re happy to make that clear on the website. Media: And what’s the total number of hospitalisations in the entire course of the journey? PM: Total hospitalisations—I’ll let Dr Bloomfield find that number. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Let me just find the number here. So the total number of hospitalisations to date is—actually, I’ve got percentages, so that’s—oh, sorry, 92—92 cases. Media: Is that just a remarkable number compared to the rest of the world? Is that the best one you’ve got to sort of sell New Zealand’s response, do you think? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, so as a proportion of our total number of cases, it is, perhaps, lower than many other countries. Likewise, we’ve had very few people requiring intensive care unit level of care, and likewise our number of deaths is very small—less than 2 percent proportionately, and you’ll see many other countries that have a higher percentage of their total case numbers or a higher proportion that are deaths. I think what it reflects is the extensiveness of our testing. So we’ve got a high level of confidence we have picked up a very high proportion of the actual cases we have had, even through the lockdown period. PM: Just the last couple of questions. Media: Prime Minister, you said yesterday that you wouldn’t comment on the NZME-Stuff situation because of commercial sensitivities. Is that because the Government itself might be commercially interested in buying Stuff? PM: That is a huge assumption. Media: It must be a wrong one, then. PM: Ha, ha! Media: Just a question from a colleague: Australian radio host Alan Jones has resigned due to ill health. He made some comments last year about you. What is your reaction to that news? PM: When anyone has ill health, I wish them the very best. Media: Skycity have said that anyone entering their casino need to be part of their rewards programme. Their take on that is that they need to be able to contact trace people, but are you concerned that that would encourage gambling, if everyone’s required to go into the special reward programme? PM: I wouldn’t mind, actually, if you wouldn’t mind—I wouldn’t mind taking a little look at that, because, you know, one of the reasons, of course, that we are asking businesses to do that are for legitimate health reasons, if people are in close contact with one another in particular. But equally, there may be an overlay here specific to gambling, so I might just go and take a closer look at that. You will have heard us talk in the past about using technological solutions that would actually give customers a bit more control. So you can use things like QR technology, which means that someone might just scan before going into a premise, and then they’re the ones holding that data, so if they become positive with COVID, then actually it’s through them that we access that information rather than the other way around. So that’s why those kinds of solutions are important alternatives. Media: To follow on that, what progress has been made on that national contact tracing app? What’s the time frame for it being used? PM: Yeah, and so that’s—just to give you an indication, of course, we’ve always said that we think that there are a range of solutions there, and we’ve never wanted to be too fixated on just one. Again, one of the things I’m observing in Australia is, again, uptake, but also whether or not it’s providing or meeting expectation. We, however, in the meantime, continue to work on those solutions, but they will include alternatives, not just Bluetooth apps that talk to each other. Media: But the QR app, is that time frame— PM: Yeah, so that’s one of the options that we have been looking at, is just an app that uses QR code technology, which is common for many existing services. Thanks, everyone. Last modified: 13 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The daily COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Last modified: 13 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. PM : Kia ora koutou katoa. Just as a bit of a heads up, I think you’re all aware that I’ll be making some slightly longer comments today, just as a bit of a preview to the Budget tomorrow. But, obviously, before I do that, I will hand over to Dr Bloomfield. Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. Again today we’re reporting no new cases of COVID-19. This encouraging news means that New Zealand’s combined total of confirmed and probable cases remains at 1,497, of which 1,147 are confirmed. So we now have 1,042 people who have been confirmed as having recovered from COVID-19, an increase of 12 on yesterday, and the overall percentage increases to 94 percent. Again today there are just two people receiving hospital-level care. Neither are in ICU. We still have 16 significant clusters, four of which, as you know, are closed, and there are no additional deaths to report today. Yesterday, our laboratories across the country processed 5,961 tests, and our total now is 203,045 processed. So this milestone of 200,000 tests, which is just over 4 percent of the population, is a significant achievement. I want to recognise everybody who has been tested, as well as the many, many people across the system who have facilitated that happening. It’s an incredibly important pillar of our response to COVID-19. As we prepare for level 2 tomorrow, the sense of anticipation is both palpable and understandable. We are looking forward to re-establishing some of the routines and rhythms of our near-normal lives. In level 2, it’s vital we do continue to model the personal behaviours that are going to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand and out of our communities, and so just to reiterate those key messages and the key measures: keep your distance from other people when out in public, including in transport. If you are sick, stay home; don’t go to work or school and don’t socialise if you are unwell. If you have symptoms of a cold or flu, call your doctor or Healthline and tell them the symptoms and ask about getting tested. Good hand hygiene continues to be paramount—the simplest and most effective tool we have to keep COVID-19 at bay. Social gatherings are a maximum of 10 people at once, and please keep track of where you have been, to help us with contact tracing in case it is needed. So today’s figures do reinforce that we are on the right path, that we are maintaining the gains made through alert levels 4 and 3, and we’re heading for success. But as you will have seen overnight from other jurisdictions, this is a stubborn virus, and we don’t want to be going down the path were we see spikes again, so we can’t afford to give away the progress we’ve made. We need to remain vigilant. Finally, some comments on the review that the Waitematā DHB was doing of the experience in Waitakere Hospital and beyond, with the St Margaret’s cluster there. I received a copy of the review report yesterday, late in the day. It was being considered by the board of the district health board this morning and is going to be released at 2 o’clock this afternoon. It’s a really good example, I think, of rapid and transparent reviewing of our response to COVID-19 in a very particular setting so that we can learn and then translate those learnings into our advice nationally so that all district health boards can benefit from that. It had a panel of four people, including representatives from the New Zealand Nurses Organisation, and I’m really pleased to have received that report and to see that it is going to be made public later today in an open and constructive way. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. Just before I come to the Budget, I do want to speak to some of the hardest parts of the alert level framework, and these parts have been difficult through the entirety of our response to COVID-19 but are particularly pronounced at alert level 2, and they are, namely, funerals and tangihanga. This morning we’ve instigated calls between church leaders—Dr Bloomfield and myself were part of a call this morning—funeral directors, and iwi leaders to see if we can find a way to further satisfy health concerns—which are legitimate, particularly given that we have seen overseas and particular research demonstrating that funerals and weddings have been part of the spread of COVID-19 in many countries—but also recognise that funerals and tangi are exceptional. They are life events that cannot be postponed. I do believe that we are well on our way to finding a solution that will meet both of these concerns, and I expect the Minister of Health will have more to say on that before the end of the day. It will still mean that there will be, of course, still restrictions, but we are working hard to see if we can find ways to accommodate some of the concerns that have been raised, within the capacity of the Ministry of Health to help give the reassurance that some of those issues can be managed. Tomorrow afternoon, Budget 2020 will be delivered within the most challenging economic conditions faced by any Government since the Great Depression. The global COVID-19 pandemic has triggered a global economic shock not of our making, but like every country in the world, we are also not immune to its fallout. Now, let me be clear. The coming months and years will be some of the most challenging our country has faced in a very, very long time. The International Monetary Fund predicts the global economy will contract by 3 percent in 2020, much worse than during the global financial crisis. Around the world, unemployment will rise significantly. Businesses will fail and close. Government revenue will decline, and we will see the pain here too. New Zealand is about to enter a very tough winter, but every winter eventually is followed by spring, and if we make the right choices, we can get New Zealanders back to work and our economy moving quickly again. Today I want to set out the values that underpin our economic response to the virus and signal how we intend to tackle it. Firstly, though, the best economic response to the virus was always going to be a strong health response. Going hard and early means economic opportunities, and faster than many trading partners. I know the last seven weeks have been a huge challenge to business, which is why the first phase in our economic response has been entirely focused on assisting business to stay afloat and supporting New Zealanders to stay connected to their jobs. I’m enormously proud of the work finance Minister Grant Robertson and social development Minister Carmel Sepuloni did with the wage subsidy scheme. This nearly $11 billion investment has ensured that over a million and a half workers have stayed employed and connected to their jobs during the toughest period of the lockdown, while providing a guarantee to businesses to keep going, as they can start to get back on their feet at level 2. Sitting alongside the wage subsidy has been the largest suite of business tax changes in modern history, aimed at freeing up cash flow to support businesses when they couldn’t trade, and our no-interest loan scheme provides much-needed cash for things like rent and other costs as they get up and running. These measures have worked so far. Our unemployment rate will, sadly, increase, but it has not, to date, spiked. And Treasury scenarios suggest that because we stayed at level 4 and 3 for a shorter period of time, our unemployment rate could end up at the lower end of their projected ranges. Dealing to the virus quickly also allows other economic opportunities. A possible trans-Tasman bubble, when safe, could see New Zealand and Australia opening up greater tourism and trade opportunities while our borders have to stay closed to the rest of the world, offering some additional reprieve for our tourism and hospitality industries. But the next stage in our journey of rebuilding together is recovery. Our focus now is the jobs and incomes of businesses and New Zealanders. Budget 2020 is but the first step in this phase. In normal years the Budget sets out the Government’s economic plans for the following year in detail, but this Budget is different. It is not business as usual. Instead, it is a tailored solution to a unique situation. There is no playbook for the recovery we are about to embark on, but nor do we need one. When it has come to COVID-19, we have carved a path based on our people, our health system, and our economy, and now that is exactly what we will do again as we recover and rebuild. Let me say from the outset, the team and I will bring the same determination and focus to the economic rebuild as we brought to our health response. To start that phase, we need to consider what our objectives are and the best steps to achieve them. The finance Minister will set out much of this tomorrow, and I won’t pre-empt anything he has to say on that, but today I can set out what we are trying to achieve and the values that we bring to the work. The first thing you’ll notice is that we believe when times are hard, you don’t cut; you invest. We will run the ruler over every line of expenditure. No question, we need to ensure that our expenditure provides value for money and supports our primary goal of jobs. But the notion that at this time of need we would make cuts to the essential services so many New Zealanders need more than ever is not only immoral; it’s economically wrong. That’s why yesterday we made the biggest investment in health funding in two decades. It’s why on Monday we delivered pay equity for early childhood teachers. It’s why one of the first things we did when the virus hit was to increase benefits to ensure those who lost their job had more to help them through. Now more than ever we need our schools and hospitals, our public houses, and roads, and railways. We need our police and our nurses, and we need our welfare safety net. We will not let our team of 5 million fall when the times get tough. Instead, we will strengthen the blanket of support that Government is there to provide. We are rebuilding together, not apart. These foundations are essential. They are our base. But on top of them we must build the things that accelerate employment, empower businesses, and stimulate our productive economy. A relentless focus on jobs, the economy, and businesses is what’s required now for the wellbeing of New Zealanders. Projections suggest our economic shock could be sharp but, hopefully, short. That means we need a plan to get us through the worst and position us well for recovery. The biggest fiscal asset we currently have to get us through the worst is the Government’s balance sheet. Due to our prudent economic management of the books, heading into lockdown we had debt under 20 percent of GDP, lower that what we inherited it at; low unemployment around 4 percent; and an Aaa foreign currency rating from Moody’s. I defended the surpluses we ran in our first two Budgets on the basis that we needed to prepare financially for a rainy day. Well, that day has well and truly arrived. The Government’s ability to borrow at very low interest rates places us in a strong position to weather the economic storm ahead, but more than that, we are well positioned to use our balance sheet to shelter New Zealanders from the worst impacts of the fallout, and in doing so, protect jobs and grow our economy. Our number one priority is jobs, and that’s why this will be a jobs Budget. That means doing all we can to support people staying in their current job or moving to a new one if needed. And the reason for that is simple. It harks back to the sentiment of Norman Kirk—that all anyone ever really needs is something to do, somewhere to live, someone to love, and something to hope for. Employment helps form a foundation. It supports families. It pays the bills. It helps provide self-value and worth, and when times are tough like this, workplaces can provide an important support network. Our plan is to invest. By investing we will create jobs and get the economy moving again. Just as the rising tide lifts all boats, a growing economy has the ability to support us all and allows us to bring the Government books back into the black. This is not going to be the work of just one Budget. It will require relentless focus on growth and jobs, and not just growth for growth’s sake, but in a way that acknowledges we have challenges to our environment, to our wellbeing, that we can also use this time to help resolve. Tomorrow you will see how we will start to do that. But in the same way that we have fought the virus together, we also need to start our rebuild together. That will take all of us. In the coming month the Government will launch a comprehensive engagement programme that will pose a simple proposition: look at what our team of 5 million achieved together in beating the virus. Now what can we do together to get our economy moving again, to look after our people, and rebuild in a way that makes things better than they were before? That will, of course, include the business community. But it will be broader too. If anything, the last few months have shown us that united, we are formidable force. When we channel our energies into a goal collectively, we are stronger for it. Prior to the virus we faced serious long-term challenges: persistent inequality, poverty, the threat of climate change, the need to diversify the economy, low productivity, limited domestic manufacturing, and an abundance of low-paid jobs. Do we return to those settings, or is now the time to find a better way? There are tough times to come, but we have experienced tough times before, and when confronted with external crisis—we had a Great Depression, a world war, and now a global health pandemic—our instinct has been to come together as business, as community, as iwi, as New Zealand. And we will again. We will use the strength of our economic position as Government to carry the load while businesses and households get back on their feet. The situation is constantly changing, and the future may feel uncertain, but as I said right at the beginning, we have a plan. We know it will be tough, but we will get through it the same way we got through the past two months—together. Happy to take your questions. Media : How did you get it so wrong on funerals and tangi, you and your Ministers, and, Dr Bloomfield, given your health position on this, how uncomfortable are you about any loosening of the restrictions? PM : Again, I would just not pre-empt that we are still working through some of the details on how we can make sure that we accommodate both those concerns—the health concerns that still exist, but also see if we can find a way to acknowledge the exceptional time that a tangi and a funeral presents. What I also do want to point out is that we’re not alone in this situation. You’ll see that we’re not dissimilar to other countries and the restrictions that apply and have applied to date to funerals, for the same reasons: making sure that we don’t lose the gains that have been so hard fought for. But again, as I say, we are working through, and we’ve always said we’ll be agile and keep trying to find how we can make things work to keep people safe, but acknowledge that this is an incredibly tough thing for New Zealanders to go through. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So our public health advice was, in part, predicated on trying to get consistency around the group of activities that we saw as the highest risk. So, obviously, there’s been a lot of feedback about this particular circumstance, so we’ve engaged, listened, and we’re trying to work through solutions there that will still mitigate the public health risks but will address the concerns and the opportunities that I think people who are holding funerals and/or tangihanga are wanting to explore. PM : Just for clarity, we’ll put out some further details on this by this afternoon, but I should be clear: there will still be restrictions in place. I don’t want to leave the impression that that won’t be the case. And again, I was discussing with my Chief Science Advisor just this morning the fact that in the United States, they’ve done pieces of work that have demonstrated funerals and weddings as the origin for outbreaks. That has been the case across the globe, and so we are still managing that scenario in New Zealand. Media: Prime Minister— PM : I’ll come to you, Maiki, and then I’ll come to you, Tova. Maiki. Media : What sort of impact has the iwi and the public pressure had, though, on your decision? PM : Oh, I think we always said, and this has been the case for every single stage of our response—and there have been other areas where we’ve engaged and tried to accommodate the health protections that we need for all New Zealanders but also found ways to try and accommodate different activity. We’ve done that all the way through, and I think that’s something that we should continue to do, and I don’t shy away from that. We’ve always said that we wanted to be as agile as we could be, but we still must maintain those protections, because they are there for everyone. Media : Dr Bloomfield talked about it being predicated on consistency, but that was the problem with this—it was the inconsistency that you could have a hundred strangers in a movie theatre, for example, but not 100 people physically distanced at a burial site. Why was it so inconsistent? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The consistency was around group size, and I think the Prime Minister’s articulated that over the last couple of days—about why you are bringing people together for a common purpose, and that’s what we were aiming to be consistent on, because that is where the highest risk is: it’s the mixing and mingling. So what we are working on are ways that we can, in this particular situation, help mitigate the public health risks and balance those against the very clear needs of people at that time. Media : Prime Minister, do you recognise how much hurt you and the Government are causing grieving families? PM : I think COVID-19 is causing hurt—immeasurable hurt—and as we try— Media : But here’s something you can fix. PM : As we try and make sure that we prevent people from experiencing undue pain by having to confront this virus, I do accept that there has been consequences of that. And, in fact, you’ve seen me almost every day in this press conference acknowledge that, because I’ve seen it up close. I have colleagues and friends who have gone through funeral and tangi through lockdown and through level 3. And so we’ve always accepted that. What we’re trying to do is make sure that we can maintain the principles we’ve always had to protect people whilst at the same time seeing if there are other accommodations that can be made if we have certain measures in place. So that’s what we are leaving the health team to work through with iwi leaders, with funeral directors, and we’ve also had conversations with religious figures. Media : As you say, you’ve consistently said that same message in acknowledging that it’s hard. Why, then, did you not start working on this much earlier so that these changes could be in place? What changed your mind over the last 24 hours? PM : I still absolutely hold the view that, of course, we unfortunately still have to have restrictions here, and you will still see that in place. What we’re seeing is whether or not we can accommodate within resourcing the ability for there to be, really, checks and balances to support funeral directors in managing some of that directly, as well. And so— Media : What does that mean, Prime Minister? PM : It means in a couple of hours that you’ll get the detail from the Minister of Health around whether or not we can put a process that involves funeral directors and the Ministry of Health working together on individual funerals. And so that detail we’ll be putting out in a couple of hours, but you’ll understand why I’d want to give due regard to the view of funeral directors, who the Minister of Health is talking with about some of these ideas and proposals to make sure that they’re workable. But, ultimately, we have always said that we wanted to work through issues where they arose. You’ll look overseas and see the likes of Australia have the same consistent limitations, albeit they use the number 10 and the number 20, and some have not engaged at all in public gatherings at all. So this has been something that every country has had to address. New Zealand is not unique. The one final comment I do want to make: we have to absolutely exercise caution here. New Zealand is not out of the woods yet, and we have to remember that although we’re moving into alert level 2, the issue continues to be managing places where we’re all congregating together. And that’s the consistency Dr Bloomfield spoke about. You’ll see other areas where New Zealanders will be in similar places together, but not for the purposes of them socialising together. And that is the difference, because it wasn’t that you saw New Zealanders at a retail store getting COVID; you saw them getting it at weddings. Media : [Inaudible] move into level 2 tomorrow, what PPE gear do hairdressers have to wear, and can they operate without it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So I know that the hairdressing association or their peak body has put out guidance with quite clear expectations around what they will wear. Our infection prevention and control experts have said that the most important thing, if they want to wear it, is a mask, and that is because they are repeatedly within the metre, and seeing a number of clients on a day. However, I think the important thing here is for hairdressers, beauticians, and, indeed, everybody, schools, whatever the setting—the key thing here is we did not give the advice to move to alert level 2 before we knew we had got on top of the virus and the risk of it being out there was very, very low. So the advice—again, the infection prevention and control expert’s advice to everybody around use of PPE, whether in the healthcare setting or non-healthcare setting or to the general public, is very much predicated on the situation we find ourselves in, which is quite different from other countries who have relaxed their measures. Media : Can they open if they don’t wear it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Sorry? Media : Could they open if they don’t wear it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, they could if they wanted to. Our advice is that they can; it’s optional. But their advice from their association, and my understanding is this is what they’re gearing up to, is to have masks and so on available. So, I think, you know, that’s good that their peak body has provided that advice to them, and that is partly also about them making sure they are feeling safe as we go down to alert level 2. Media : Just back on funerals and tangi. What about enforcement—would you support police breaking up a small burial of 30 grieving family members? PM : No one wants to see that. You’ll have seen from the enforcement framework that the police have always used, and I anticipate that they will keep using—in fact, they’ve indicated that—that their focus has always been on education first. They move through a four-step process where it’s talking about what the expectations are. They then move through warnings, and then further down is, of course, the harsher end of enforcement. Ultimately, no one wants to see that, but these guidelines are in place, ultimately, because we want to protect people, and we want to make sure that no one experiences harm in their own family or in their own community. Media : So say a funeral of a hundred people then went ahead while these restrictions are still in place, would you support police breaking that up or issuing warnings? PM : Again, you’ve just heard me say that no one wants to see those kinds of situations, and the best way, of course, to avoid that is to make sure that we have arrangements in place that do the very best possible to accommodate all of the health concerns but also the unique nature of funerals. What I will say is it is not for me to dictate what the police will do, because they decide on an individual basis. But I don’t think anyone in New Zealand wants to see a scene like that. Media : Dr Bloomfield, in Australia, at least in most states, up to 20 people are able to attend an indoor funeral. Thirty people is the limit for outdoor funerals. Is that a more appropriate limit? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, it’s a different limit, and there are a number of differences between the steps we’re taking as we move into alert level 2, and a whole range of settings that are different from Australia. We’ve certainly looked at the Australian advice already and we had the benefit of having that to inform our advice to our Government, so I think it’s just a different limit. I think the key thing here is it’s also still very conservative, and that’s because Australia, like us and other countries, recognise that it’s the gathering of people at events like that that creates the highest risk of transmission. PM : I think one thing to add as well—you’ll see that the way we’ve set out our framework, we are moving at pace. There is a chance that we’ll have fewer restrictions in a shorter period of time, but what we’ve successfully done is really locked in guarantees that we’ve made the progress we believe we have before we take too many risks. Social gatherings are the biggest risk factor for us, and that’s why there are those limitations there. One final context point is many of you will have seen overnight ongoing reporting of second waves in places, in some cases, that haven’t had cases for up to a month. You know, that is a warning shot to us that we do need to be really careful. No one wants to go backwards, but we’re seeing other countries who have had significant precautions who have, so we do want to make sure we move and we keep moving, but we do so cautiously. Media : Prime Minister, what do you make of the facial recognition trial, and are you concerned that the Privacy Commissioner wasn’t aware of that? PM : The facial recognition trial? Media : By police. PM : I would need to look in more detail around that. I have no comment to make on those operational decisions. Media : Clearview AI? PM : Sorry? Media : It was Clearview AI. PM : No. I can’t comment on that, unfortunately. Right down the back. Media: Auckland City Mission has said that its food parcel and accommodation support is very short-term and shouldn’t be compared to emergency benefits for migrants. Don’t you need to do both, otherwise we’ll end up with migrants on the street? PM : Yeah, so we did use that in the initial response because it was fast, it got support out the door, and it had flexibility. I don’t deny that we will need a longer-term framework, but for now, that has been a very important part of our response. Media : So that longer-term framework could be emergency benefits— PM : I don’t want to get ahead of any further decision-making, but what has been important is right from the beginning that that support was available and it had flexibility, particularly around accommodation and the way that sometimes other grants don’t provide that level of accommodation support. It could be done to tailor to the needs of those that on the ground were being seen by our community emergency management teams. Bernard, I know you’ll have you’ll have a follow-up on that. Media : Prime Minister, do you agree with your Deputy Prime Minister that those 300,000-plus guest workers should go home and they should have gone home when they had the chance and that’s why all they’re getting is tins of baked beans from CDEM? PM : Whilst I haven’t seen the entirety of those comments, my view is that many of those workers would not have had a chance to make those kinds of decisions. Things happened very, very quickly. Some would have lost their jobs at a point when it would not have been possible to make any other plans, which is why we’ve always said we have to take a compassionate approach for those who’ve found themselves in a circumstance where they were unable to make any alternative arrangements, be it a tourist who may have found themselves here, be it someone on a working holiday visa, be it someone who had a work visa. That is why we have sought to support them. So that would be my perspective on why it was important that that care was taken. Media : So why not use the Social Security Act to give them a benefit too? PM : Yeah, as I’ve said many, many times down here—that what we used was a way to provide similar support, but quickly, on the ground, and face-to-face with those who required it. I do acknowledge that as we move into a transition phase and out of our national emergency management response mode, which we are doing, we will need a specific response tailored to that group, because of course we won’t have those community-level agencies available for too much longer. Media : So are you saying that there might be some sort of benefit to help— PM : No. I’m just saying there’s more work to be done there, Bernard—that I acknowledge that there’s a gap there; that we have plugged it for now but it will require a longer-term response and plan. Media : [Inaudible] Joyce said yesterday, “Telling them to cope with no money at all is simply not how we see ourselves as a country. I have no idea why the Prime Minister is not acting. Why isn’t she showing more compassion?”. What’s your view that this is not a compassionate view? PM : Well, I would reject that we haven’t been supporting those who found themselves in that position. Millions of dollars was provided to those who were providing support on the ground, directly for those individuals in need. Sarah Stuart-Black, from our national emergency management team, is in Auckland looking at some of the response that’s been provided out of Spark Arena and the care that’s being provided, just to see that it was in keeping with our expectations there as well. And she equally did the same thing in Queenstown, where we did see a rush for support there as well. Media : So Newsroom is reporting today that— PM : I’ll make that the last question there, Bernard. Media : —that one pregnant woman has told us she’s so afraid— PM : Actually, yesterday I think it might have been reported that— Media : No, this is a new report this morning—saying that one pregnant woman is so afraid of asking for food, even though she has food cravings. She can’t understand why this amount of food is [Inaudible]. PM : And that should not be the case. I repeat the same message I used yesterday. We provided tens of millions for those services to make sure people had their needs met, and that included accommodation. So I do not want this just reduced down to food parcels because that was not what was intended. Media : Prime Minister, on the Budget— PM : Yeah, thank you for noticing. Media : —will it give businesses that full clarity for them to make decisions about their future—so whether they can be sustainable going forward? PM : Yeah, we have had concerns raised over, you know, what the next steps are for those in particular who have drawn down on the wage subsidy, which has been a significant number of business owners and employers. As I’ve signalled, there was more support, and is more support, for businesses coming, and they can look for that in the Budget. Media : Looking back to the DHB cash yesterday that was announced, what do you see as a priority for that, in cancer treatment, or—and also will any of it be used to pay off deficits? PM : Sorry, can you repeat the first half of your question? Media : What do you see is the priority for spending, in cancer treatment or anything like that? PM : Yeah, so there was a specific allocation that was around catch-up procedures in particular. We know that there’s a significant number of calls on DHBs’ resourcing, and, of course, we’ve been saying that since we took office—that there were deficits. There was infrastructure deficits. We needed to be able to fix the facilities in which services were provided and support and grow the workforce. But we have put in a specific allocation that is designed to catch up on elective procedures and other procedures that may have been delayed because of COVID. That is then up to the DHB to make sure they are able to deliver that. Down the front and then I’ll come back to you Maiki, and then Tova. Media : What is your stance on—there’s a bar owner of HeadQuarters bar, Leo Molloy, who’s going ahead with a level 2 party on Friday of 100 people. He’s saying that it’s allowed. What’s your stance on it? PM : No, as we’ve always said, of course, we will be operating under the Anzac provisions right through to the 21st, and even within that, there can’t be groups of more than 10. That’s that consistency we’ve had across the board—cannot have groups more than 10 socialising, mixing, mingling together. That’s why there are such strict rules around seating and so on within different parts of hospitality. I have heard some confused reporting, though, over the owner’s engagement with the police in particular, so it’s not entirely clear to me what his intentions are, if I’m honest. Media : Police having the power under the public health response bill to enter private premises without a warrant—does that still sit comfortably with you, given a number of organisations, including the Human Rights Commission, have raised serious concerns about that? And also the removal of the word “marae” from that legislation— PM : Yes. Media : —is that an admission you got that wrong? PM : Well, let me give you a little bit of context there. Of course, we’ve been operating under emergency powers, but now is the time to step away from those and narrow those provisions. It is simply not appropriate for us, when we’re at a lower alert level, to continue under national emergency powers, so it is time to transition. So that is why what we’ve put through is a narrower bill, so we’ve taken away some of the powers that existed before, because they’re not necessary and they’re not right. What we do need, though, is the ability, if there is a large, large gathering of people—you know, we could even have a situation of someone who has COVID within it—we do have to have some ability to disperse that if it’s causing a risk to people’s health and their safety. And so that’s what that bill provides, is simply the ability to enforce, but in a much narrower way than we had previously. On the issue of the reference to “marae”, what the bill explicitly did was actually make sure that rather than marae be treated potentially as commercial premises, where there are wider powers, to actually narrow it and make sure they had the same protection as private dwellings. That was the intent, so that there was no question and that there was that distinction in there. But after concerns were raised, there was no question that we would rather respond to that, even given that explanation behind it. Media : Yeah, so [Inaudible] get it wrong on that one? PM : No. Again, if you talk to the Attorney-General, he maintains the view that it was important to try and provide those protections, but equally, at the same time, if we have a call from others to say that they would prefer not to have it explicitly, then that’s something that he’s heard there. Media : Did you consult with Māori when you came up with those protections, though, or was that a protection that you put on to them? PM : Again, these are things drafted within Crown Law with consultation with the Attorney-General. It was something there was some discussion over why it was explicit, and the explanation around providing extra protection was, of course, raised. But for explicit consultation, always question the Attorney-General, because he was managing the bill. In the front. Media : Specifically what powers aren’t in the new legislation that have been held under the emergency powers?PM: It’s probably easier if I just talk about what—of course, it depends on what’s in the order. So the orders that we’re using now are much, much more curtailed, and so, really, the ability to disperse gatherings and just maintain what is in an order. And you’ll see for alert level 2 those orders are very small. It’s basically social distancing and gatherings. And so, again, using broad-sweeping national emergency powers are just not suitable under those circumstances. Jo. Media : For those people who have lost loved ones during level 3 and have waited till tomorrow to have a funeral, assuming that the restrictions would have loosened, can you guarantee that loosened restrictions will be in place for them from tomorrow, and can you give them at least a little bit of clarity now as to what that might look like? PM : Yeah, and so Minister Clark and Minister Davis were finishing calls with funeral directors only in the last hour or so, so I expect that information will be provided, yes, before we move into alert level 2. So yes, they will have that clarity. Again, I do want to just acknowledge that there will still be restrictions, but we are trying to accommodate, as I said, both the concerns on both sides around heath mitigations but also the exceptional circumstances of funeral and tangi. Jessica, and then I’ll finish with Tova and then Ben. Media : A question from our Australian correspondent: the relationship between China and Australia at the moment could be described as tense; what impact does that have on us? PM : Well, actually, we are our own relationship, obviously, so it really—it doesn’t, and nor should it. We’ve an independent relationship—one, of course, which we’ve long fostered. New Zealand has been the subject of a number of firsts when it comes to our relationship with China, not least the signing of our free-trade agreement, visitors from Prime Ministers, and so on. So it is an independent relationship, and one, obviously, that’s important to us. Media : Prime Minister, thank you. A number of churches are concerned that the 10-person limit is stopping them and their communities from attending weekly church and worship services. Is that fair when the same thing applies with movie theatres and gyms that we were talking about before? PM : Yeah, and, again, there’s those definitions around socialising and congregation, and I absolutely understand and have had a few engagements with—obviously, as I spoke of this morning, there’s a church leaders group that Minister Salesa convenes that I was able to join and discuss briefly, and there are some different views amongst church leaders. But the main point I think I would emphasise is we hope this is for a short, short time. I’m as keen as anyone to get New Zealanders in a position where those who are of faith and wish to be able to come back together—particularly at this testing time—are able to do that. Media : And Brian Tamaki is vowing to go ahead with a Destiny Church service this weekend. Should that be stopped? PM : We want him to listen to public advice, in the same way that we want everyone to. No one wants to risk an outbreak, and I’m sure he wouldn’t want to put his congregation at risk. Finish with Ben. Media : I’ve got one more colleague—thank you, Ben. Has any decision been made about how ski fields will be able to operate? PM : I actually understand that the likes of Cardrona and others have actually been working quite productively on guidelines—I think in conjunction with the ministry. So last I heard, they had made some good progress, but I wouldn’t want to speak in too much detail on that. Media : National isn’t supporting the enforcement legislation, and National were the ones that launched the petition to relax the restrictions on [Inaudible]. So it feels a lot like after an extraordinary period—like a laying down of arms during the lockdown period—that campaigning for the election is [Inaudible]. Is that fair to say, for the public [Inaudible]? PM : Well, look, all I would reflect on is it was only a few weeks ago that they were bringing science advisers before the committee that were concerned around whether or not New Zealand was moving too quickly. As I’ve always said, we have to keep in mind making sure that we open back up the economy in the safest way possible and not lose the potential economic advantage we have of being amongst the first countries to do so. And so that is the challenge that we have. Where the Opposition choose to position themselves on that is for them. I’m getting on with trying to get this right. Claire. You haven’t had a question. Media : Mine is for Dr Bloomfield. PM : Oh, go ahead. Media : It’s from a reader who wants to know if dogs can once again play together and we can pat other people’s dogs at level 2. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, they can get together—no more than groups of 10. And, yes, it’s safe to pat dogs, but as with anything, wash your hands thoroughly afterwards. PM : Nothing if not consistent. All right. Thank you, everyone. Last modified: 14 May 2020
COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The 18 May COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference: Last modified: 20 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Kia ora koutou katoa. Welcome to this afternoon’s briefing. I’ve got Police Commissioner Andrew Coster with me here today. I’d like to start off by talking a bit about our cases for the day, the World Health Assembly that is convening tonight in Geneva virtually, and also a comment around religious and faith-based gatherings. First of all, I can report there are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in New Zealand today; so our total number of confirmed and probable cases remains at 1,499, and of these 1,149 are confirmed cases—the number we report to the WHO. No change in the number of people who have recovered, from yesterday; that is 1,433, which represents 96 percent of all confirmed and probable cases. There are just two people in hospital again today: one in Middlemore and one in Auckland Hospital, and neither are in intensive care units. The number of significant clusters remains at 16, but, obviously, no additional cases to add to any of those. And there are no additional deaths to report today. Yesterday, there were 2,570 laboratory tests processed, and so our total number to date is 230,718 tests. Tonight, I’ll be leading the New Zealand delegation at the 2020 World Health Assembly. This is held annually in Geneva, usually over a period of a week. This year, because of the circumstances, it will be undertaken virtually and over sessions over a couple of days. I’m looking forward to hearing from the WHO Director-General, Dr Tedros, on his thoughts for the future efforts around COVID-19 globally and also about broader global health issues. The Minister of Health, the Hon Dr David Clark, will be presenting New Zealand’s country statement via video. I don’t have a speaking part, even though I’m the head of the delegation, because the interventions by countries will be made very short; however, if there’s something that member States speak about that I think it’s in New Zealand’s interests to intervene on, I will do so. New Zealand is co-sponsoring a resolution on COVID-19. The purpose of the resolution is to agree at a high level the future areas of work to be undertaken on COVID-19 by member States and by the World Health Organization and other organisations, and one example is, for example, to ensure fair access to vaccines as part of the global efforts to develop and make these available. At a time of global crisis around a public health issue, it’s critical that countries come together, and the COVID-19 resolution aims to support that. Such solidarity will ensure we respond collectively, as we must do, to these sorts of global challenges. There will also be in the resolution a reference to a review of the pandemic and the response to it. I will note that, after any global health emergency or issue, this is done. For example, it has happened with Ebola and it happened after the swine flu pandemic H1N1 in 2009. The findings of the reviews help inform both the WHO’s subsequent work and the work of member States, as well, and ensures that appropriate technical guidance and support is developed. There is general agreement amongst WHO members on the issues outlined in the resolution. There’s been a lot of work undertaken by diplomats over the last few weeks to get to that level of agreement and it is expected to be adopted unanimously. And, finally, I want to talk briefly on church and faith-based gatherings. I know there was some publicity over the last weekend about these. It’s important I start by saying there has been fantastic support from churches and other faith-based organisations right through levels 4 and 3 and into alert level 2 across the country, and they have been very supportive and collective in their efforts to protect all New Zealanders. I know that many people, including those of faith, want to move as quickly as possible to increase the size of gatherings. I know how important it is for people to be able to practise their faith together. The policy intent for gatherings is clear in the alert level 2 framework, and this includes the current maximum number of people who can gather as currently 10, and this applies to both private and public gatherings, including church and faith-based ones. But this number is one of the very specific issues that are being reconsidered by Cabinet next Monday. Thank you, and I’ll hand over to the commissioner. Commissioner Andrew Coster: Thank you, kia ora koutou. I want to open by acknowledging the fantastic effort and commitment from New Zealanders as we’ve moved into alert level 2. Apart from an expected period of adjustment, New Zealanders have demonstrated that they understand what is expected of them. Overall, in alert level 2, the number of breaches are significantly less than alert level 3. We’re only getting 200 to 350 reports per day, as compared to the 700 to 1,000 we experienced during alert level 3. Since level 2, we’ve had 983 breaches reported to police, mostly through the 105 phone line. About 700 of those were for businesses and 250 related to mass gatherings. A number of the complaints received have related to retail businesses not having contact tracing systems, and it’s important to note that contact tracing for customers for retail businesses is not a requirement, although they must contract trace for workers. A large number of reported breaches around retail premises have related to not maintaining correct distancing measures—something which we believe is now settling down. Parties at private premises featured on Friday and Saturday nights, although not at the levels we’ve seen in prior weekends, and we continue to take an enforcement approach led by education, encouragement, and engagement. We have recorded a total of 30 breaches; 29 of those resulted in warnings and one prosecution. There has been some commentary about powers of entry available to police, and since we started in alert level 2 there has been no entry of premises using those warrantless powers. The powers are narrowed from what has been in place under the previous state of emergency and health orders, and we, in our own operational guidelines, have required front-line staff to consult with the district command centre or our national command centre prior to executing a warrantless power of entry. There’s an obligation to report to me as the commissioner as soon as possible, outlining the circumstances, and, in relation to marae, the marae committee would also receive such a report. It’s important to emphasise, it is unlikely those powers need to be used with any frequency. Thank you very much. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Are there any questions? Media: Commissioner, can we just start off by asking you, why do we even need those powers in place if, as you say, we haven’t used them so far? Commissioner Andrew Coster: The public would expect us to be able to take enforcement action in extreme cases. So the sort of scenario you might imagine is a party out of control. If we were denied access to the property by the occupants, then a power of entry would allow us to go and sort that situation out. It’s not uncommon for us to have powers of entry; there are equivalent powers relating to noise control events where, on occasion, if required, we can force entry. Media: But as you say, wouldn’t you be able to do that in normal circumstances anyway? Why do you need these overarching new powers, and don’t they just alarm the public? Commissioner Andrew Coster: We can only use a power where one exists. Powers do exist for other things like serious offending, drug offending, and also noise control, as I’ve noted, but we can’t generally enter a property if the occupants have denied entry, so the powers allow us to sort out the outlier events. Media: In terms of search warrants that you’d get in a normal situation, do they just take too long? Is that why you need this special power? Commissioner Andrew Coster: A search warrant is an option that we can use, but, again, it comes from legislation. And I can’t speak for Parliament, but it stands to reason that a one to two hour delay for police to sort out a mass gathering would probably be unacceptable and likely increase the health risk of that gathering continuing. Media: Commissioner, have you got an explanation for Clearview [Inaudible] for using Clearview AI seemingly without your knowledge? Commissioner Andrew Coster: That’s been well-traversed. The trial concluded prior to my commencing in the role. It’s accepted that we ought to have consulted with the Privacy Commissioner before we did it, but the trial was a very narrow exercise. We determined that it was not useful in New Zealand circumstances and we don’t envisage using the technology. Media: Did your predecessor sign it off? Commissioner Andrew Coster: I can’t speak to that. Media: You were quoted—well, John Edwards told, us that in a conversation you’d had with him that you said that you were concerned that it hadn’t had that sign-off at top level. Can you give us a bit more detail about the concerns that you had about how this was run, even not under your watch? Commissioner Andrew Coster: With technology of this nature, clearly there is a public interest in its use, and privacy concerns could arise depending on how it’s being used. So the normal approach we would take would be a conversation with the Office of the Privacy Commissioner, to talk about the boundaries of a trial, and then we would stick within those boundaries. Now, it was a very narrow trial, and the staff involved were incredibly wellintended, but we missed that crucial consultation. Media: But it was still used, though, to run hundreds of searches. So how acceptable is that, to be running that kind of thing without official sign-off, as well intentioned as it is? Commissioner Andrew Coster: The vast majority of searches were actually on volunteer police staff. There were roughly 30 searches, involving a small number of cases, to test the technology. It shouldn’t have occurred without that sign-off. However, I’m satisfied that no one intended to cause a problem here. Media: Is there going to be a review, though, of how that was allowed to happen, given the potentially very serious nature of running such a thing without sign-off? Commissioner Andrew Coster: I’ve commissioned a stock take of any surveillancetype technologies that we may be using or trialling, to make sure that there’s nothing equivalent. Clearly, technology is moving really quickly, and it has good and appropriate application in law enforcement, the trick is for us to make sure that we are doing that within the bounds of the Privacy Act. Media: Do you conceive of this as a purely operational matter, and one where you don’t need to consult your Minister, but only the Privacy Commissioner? Or in future would you seek to consult the Minister as well? Commissioner Andrew Coster: There is operational independence for police, but clearly there’s a public interest where we’re using technology of this nature that we consult it. So whether or not I’m required to consult the Minister, it’s something I would do as a matter of good practice. Media: Are you concerned that police officials specifically trialled the technology on people who they thought looked to be of Māori or Polynesian ethnicity as well Irish roof contractors? Commissioner Andrew Coster: I don’t understand there being any particular frame that was brought in terms of who was used, other than current cases of interest. Media: Dr Bloomfield, the guidelines were changed for funerals last week, and now the review on religious gatherings is not going to happen for another week. What exactly is it about religious gatherings that concerns you as a health professional? Why more than 10 people can’t be in a church that might seat 200? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So when the original alert level 2 guidance was put out, every gathering was benchmarked actually at the number that there was for funerals and tangihanga under alert level 3; that was the 10. And the main rationale for that was it was felt that those gatherings, where there was likely to be mixing and mingling on top of the already quite extensive changes as we move to alert level 2, just the cumulative risk was too high, and one way we could manage that would be to start with a small number, not discriminating, but for all public and private gatherings, and then to increase that over subsequent weeks. The exception was made after discussions last week around funeral and tangihanga because of those special circumstances, and the review of the number by Cabinet next week, and their consideration of that and other matters as to how things are going under alert level 3, is again not specific to religious and faith-based gatherings, but is the number that would be allowed in any gathering, both public and private. Media: So all you’re saying is you don’t agree with there to be the need for an exemption for religious gatherings, and that next week is a broad assessment of all numbers for everything? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That’s correct, and one of the key reasons we’ve made that exception for funerals and tangihanga is because they are unique single events and the timing of those cannot really be changed. I just want to go back to my earlier comments, you know, right through alert level 4 and 3, and into 2, churches and other faith-based organisations have been very supportive and done a huge amount of work to ensure that they can keep their parishioners, their staff, and the rest of New Zealand safe by adapting how they create worship options or gathering options for their constituencies, and we’re getting closer—and I think we all would like to see the number who can gather increase, and that’s the intention. The number today reinforces the fact that we are on the right pathway. Media: As we continue to get those lower numbers, do you think it will increasingly be a harder argument to keep those restrictions in place? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: My sense is that New Zealanders want to make sure we capture the gains that we made through alert levels 4 and 3, and we’re not talking about months until we’re reconsidering the numbers. It’s being considered again in a week’s time, and I think people understand why we need to continue to take a cautious approach and make sure that even as we get into alert level 2, particularly two weeks in—so that 14-day period—we’re still confident there are not these pockets of infection out there that are not undetected and especially with more people gathering and interacting through different environments, work, retail, other organisations, and, of course, in the school environment. Media: What role did the lockdown play in getting us down to zero new cases today? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Alert level 4 lockdown? Well, it set the scene for us to be able to break that chain of transmission. We were on a very different trajectory of exponential growth, which we saw happening in other countries, and it was quite clear that if we didn’t intervene quite significantly, that would be the path we would be on. We chose to act and we’ve not only acted but we’ve acted successfully through our lockdown, not only to break the chain but to mean we can come out and start to ease those restrictions sooner than many other countries that have had those much wider outbreaks. Media: There’s quite a lot of confusion around the necessity to contact trace, particularly in retail with a lot of shops still collecting names and addresses and emails and whatnot, but they don’t need to be, do they? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not in retail settings where people’s presence in the premises is short and where there is good attention being paid to physical distancing and so on, so reducing the risk of people interacting and potentially transmitting. It’s in hospitality settings where people are coming for a period of time that it is important that names and contact details are recorded to enable contact tracing should that be required. Media: With the resolution that New Zealand will support tonight, I note your point that it’s usual after an outbreak, but obviously this is unusual—is there the potential that it would lead to a specific investigation about China, Wuhan, and any interaction with the World Health Organization during those early stages? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: The intention of the resolution and of countries negotiating that resolution is to ensure that the right sort of review is undertaken about the pandemic, from its inception through to where we are now, including the actions of the WHO, but also of member States and how they’ve responded, and the key outcome that’s been looked for here is what can we learn. Because we’re only really at the end of the beginning in this outbreak, and there is still a lot we need to do, and so I think it’s good; and you’ll have seen in our response over the last few months, we’ve already reviewed a number of aspects of that response so that we could learn rapidly. So I think it’s appropriate and I’m very supportive of this review being undertaken. Media: So this resolution could trigger—this resolution is like the early stage and could trigger a further more specific investigation, or is this setting the scene for the whole kind of review? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes. I wouldn’t characterise it as an investigation. It’s a review, and it’s being agreed by the governing body, which is all member States of WHO. So, as you can imagine, there’s been a lot of negotiation about what the scope and nature of such a review will be, but the intent is very clear and shared by member States, that it is to find out what we can learn to inform what we do next. Media: And will New Zealand or you, as New Zealand’s representative, expect full cooperation from countries like China if that’s what the resolution the member States demand or want? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Oh, absolutely, and by agreeing a resolution the member States are signalling their intent to cooperate, including New Zealand, with any work that is done as part of the review. Media: Commissioner, over the first weekend of level 2, was there a significant amount of compliance [Inaudible] by hospitality operators or were they mostly well behaved? Commissioner Andrew Coster: Sorry, which operators? Media: Hospitality operators. Commissioner Andrew Coster: Hospitality was generally very good. We’ve been, obviously, patrolling, as we do, in hospitality areas and what we saw was really good compliance. People were on to it, and it wasn’t an overly busy weekend in terms of that. Media: Why has Marist College been allowed to open, considering it is an active cluster? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Whilst the cluster is still characterised as active, one of the things we did last week was invite members of the Marist community, including students, teachers, and family members to come and be tested as part of helping provide a degree of assurance about reopening this week, and actually the testing results were highly reassuring in that regard. Whilst there was one, possibly two, that were positive, it was quite clear that the infections had happened some weeks previously, and the view was that there was no ongoing infection within that community. So I think it’s reassuring for members of that college but also of other institutions that actually that cluster has been well contained now and there’s no ongoing risk of further infection. Media: Is Taiwan playing any role today in the World Health Assembly that you’re participating in? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, Taiwan as a jurisdiction is neither a member nor an observer at the World Health Assembly. You’ll be aware that there has been quite a lot of discussion about the re-admittance of Taiwan as a potential observer at the World Health Assembly, and that discussion is ongoing. So no agreement has been reached by member States on that. Media: What do you make of all the politicisation of this pandemic? You know, you’ve got China in verbal wars with lots of other countries over this. What’s your take on it all? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, my take is that the vast majority of countries are not politicising the response but are working collectively and collaboratively both as part of the WHO membership but also in interacting with each other, and we continue to have a whole range of interactions directly with individual countries and collectively with our science advisers and through a range of mechanisms. I think most countries, if not all, recognise that cooperation will be fundamental to us being able to get on top of this pandemic globally. It’s imperative that all countries are involved in that. Media: Dr Bloomfield, you mentioned the 14-day sort of incubation period, does that mean that you’re concerned that we could see a spike at the end of this week or at the beginning of next week? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I’m not concerned, but I’m watchful. Now over, really, two and a half, nearly three, weeks post we started alert level 3, we haven’t seen any spike in cases; we haven’t found cases that were unexpected. But, obviously, we want to remain watchful, we want to keep up that testing across the country to make sure that if there are any cases there that may have gone undetected to date, we’re finding them. And we’re more likely to find them or see a spike because people are interacting more. So hence continuing the wide testing and being ready to act very quickly. Media: Part of the criteria for moving to level 1 would be ensuring there’s no community transmission. Can you sort of detail exactly what it means to have no community transmission and what criteria there are around that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, at the moment, we’re in a position where there is no community transmission. What we want to see is that is still the case once we settle into the full alert level 2 arrangements, as has been signalled previously, with that top-end size of gatherings being at 100 people. And we will want to be sure that we were still seeing no community transmission—that is that we’re not seeing cases that we cannot link back to international travel or to other existing cases that we already know about. Media: Was that 1 April the last time there was any case that you couldn’t link to national travel [Inaudible]? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: 2 April was the last time we had a case that we couldn’t link directly to a case, or where it wasn’t very clear where the person had got their infection from. Media: The Canterbury toddler with coronavirus is one of the 18 under-fives to contract the virus. On the website it just says “linked to overseas”, does that mean it was mostly their parents, or were there any cases where it was a, you know, ECE sector where someone was linked to overseas? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I can’t speak to all the earlier ones, but my strong recollection is that there were no cases that affected an early childhood education centre right through our outbreak and through the alert levels. So that would imply that either they had travelled—our cases in under-fives and, indeed, under-10s had—or, sorry, under-fives had either caught the infection through having been overseas and coming back or through transmission inside the family home. And that was the case in this case that we announced yesterday. Media: What’s the message to parents sending their kids off to school this morning? Some are feeling quite nervous, what’s your message to them? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I can understand why people might be nervous, and I think some people are nervous coming back to work and riding public transport and something. And my message is the same to everybody: the work we have put in over the last seven weeks, particularly through the lockdown and then our stepped and managed approach to come out of the lockdown, has put us in the best possible position, and we can have a high degree of confidence that there are not cases of COVID-19 out there that are creating a risk either for school students or, indeed, for others. Media: For parents who have chosen not to send their kids to school today—what would you like to say to them? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I hope that they will be reassured as well over coming days that the risk is very, very low, if there at all, and that schools have done an enormous amount to ensure that they are keeping students and staff safe in the school environment. Media: Was the child who tested positive yesterday that was linked to the Rosewood cluster a household contact of a healthcare worker? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, that’s correct. Media: And how did—were there any sort of mistakes that that healthcare worker made that meant that that passed on to the home? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I can’t comment on that, but I don’t think anyone would have made mistakes. What we have seen in our outbreaks here in New Zealand—and it’s the same pattern elsewhere—is that the family home is the place where transmission most commonly occurs. One of the things we’re looking at—at the moment, of course, we don’t have any new cases in the community, but we’re looking at how the range of options we can offer families to help reduce the likelihood of transmission inside the family home, and that might include making available other accommodation options for that family member who’s the case to greatly reduce the risk of any further transmission inside the family. Perhaps the last question, up the back. Media: The Cabinet documents that were released a couple of weeks ago show sort of a picture of a lot of frenetic activity around the period of the development of the alert levels and going into lockdown, but on Friday, March 20—the day before the alert levels were announced—it was thought that we would be in alert level 2 for 30 days. What changed in your thinking and the Government’s thinking to push us, just a couple of days later, into lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: What changed was not only could we see the pattern that was happening in New Zealand but it was very clear from what was happening overseas over that weekend, we could see that we would be on the same trajectory—that was the first thing. And the second thing was that the countries that had had wide outbreaks had had to put in place very strict lockdowns to be able to get on top of it anyway, and our view—you know, we developed a view very quickly that, ideally, we would go into an alert level 3 or 4 possibly very quickly to not only avoid a further increase in cases at that exponential rate but also to protect our healthcare system and with the intention of being able to stay in lockdown for as short as possible to be able to get the economy going again, and that became very obvious to us as we looked at the experience of other countries, particularly those in Europe. Media: And then, one last question for the commissioner, if I may? We’ve seen a lot of attempted sabotage of mobile network infrastructure and cell towers. What are police doing to sort of cope with this problem? Commissioner Andrew Coster: Obviously, we will investigate very thoroughly when this is going on, and we suspect that there’s potential some of these events are linked. This is critical infrastructure, and it’s reckless, to say the least, to try and damage it in this way. So we’ll be dealing with it very firmly when we identify those responsible. Media: Is it life-threatening? Commissioner Andrew Coster: Look, I think critical infrastructure always has the potential to be, but whether it is in a particular case depends on who’s reliant on it. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you very much. Media: Commissioner—sorry—can I just ask: there have been a few communities which have expressed continued need for community roadblocks. At level 2, are police changing their approach from working with these communities, or is it sort of now looking to remove them? Commissioner Andrew Coster: We’ve been clear that we don’t think they’re required in level 2, and communities have agreed with us. In terms of that, there are no checkpoints operating presently and we don’t see the need for them. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you. Last modified: 19 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Last modified: 27 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The daily media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference here. Transcript of daily media conference 29 April 2020  Last modified: 29 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The daily media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference here. Transcript of the daily media conference 4 May 2020 Last modified: 4 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Kia ora koutou katoa. Welcome to this afternoon’s briefing. Today we have no new cases of COVID-19 to report. One probable case already known to us has been reclassified as confirmed, following a positive test in the last few days, so that is a probable case that has now become a confirmed case. It means there’s no change to the overall total of confirmed and probable cases, which remains at 1,487. I’m pleased to say there are no additional deaths to report. So our total number of confirmed cases rises by one and is now 1,137, and this is the number that we continue to report to the World Health Organisation. Yesterday, being a Sunday, there were a lower number of tests—2,473 tests completed, a combined total to date 152,696 tests completed. Of our cases, 1,276 are now reported as recovered, an increase of 10 on yesterday, and now 86 percent of our total confirmed and probable cases are considered recovered. Today there are seven people in hospital and none in ICU. We still have the 16 significant clusters and three of these are now considered closed as there is no longer transmission of the virus within the cluster, and that’s a period of two incubation periods, so a total of 28 days since those three clusters had a case. Clearly, these are encouraging figures today, but it is just one moment in time. The real test is later this week when we factor in the incubation period for the virus and the time it takes for people to display symptoms, which is generally five to six days after exposure. So that’s when we will have an indication if there are any new cases coming through that might be emerging in the community as a result of our shift from level 4 to level 3. We cannot afford to squander all the hard work and effort of the past weeks. We did see at the weekend that it can be easy to start slackening off, and we need to maintain discipline and keep pushing on and sustain the advantage that we have fought so hard for. Today I also want to commend the work on an initiative involving students and staff at Auckland’s Marist College. The staff and students will be offered the opportunity to undergo free COVID-19 testing this week in a joint initiative between the public health unit and DHB and the school. While only half of the 94 cases associated with the Marist cluster were directly associated with the college—the others were a result of transmission within families or to others in the community—it’s important that the wider school community is given the opportunity to be tested. The testing has been agreed in a discussion between the school board, the Ministry of Education, the Auckland metro district health boards, and the Auckland Regional Public Health Service. I’m strongly supportive of this initiative and look forward to following the progress of it during the week. I also want to address the topic of flu vaccination. This is something we’ve been plugging hard this year, not because the flu vaccine gives any protection whatsoever against COVID19 but because by vaccinating as many New Zealanders as possible, in particular our older people and vulnerable New Zealanders, that reduces the likelihood that they will get the flu and then suffer the sorts of illness that might put them in hospital. It has been a record year for flu vaccines, with more than 1.35 million vaccines already distributed out to general practices, pharmacies, workplaces, and other providers, and this is more than has ever been distributed in an entire flu season here in New Zealand previously. And you will be aware, because we’ve talked about it, that an additional 400,000 doses of vaccine were procured by PHARMAC for this year, before the COVID-19 pandemic had even appeared on our horizon. It’s been important for us to prioritise those vulnerable groups early on. Hence we started the vaccination campaign two weeks early and we continued to just prioritise and make it available for those groups that are publicly funded for a full month. I can reassure those of us who are relatively healthy that there is a very low level of influenza circulating in our community, and I’ve pointed this out before—that our flu tracker and our monitoring of influenza-like illness is very, very low; a direct result of the period of lockdown we have been under, which has stopped all sorts of respiratory viruses circulating in the community. So the current travel restrictions and restrictions under alert level 3 will be continuing that. I’m pleased to say that over 451,000 people over 65 have been vaccinated already this year, exceeding the total number vaccinated in the whole campaign last year in this age group. And, likewise, more Māori over 65 have been vaccinated in the past five weeks than in the entire year of vaccination last year. Nearly 1.4 million doses of vaccine have been distributed to providers, and, as of 30 April, around 700,000 of those were recorded on our National Immunisation Register as administered. So there are still approximately 700,000 doses of flu vaccine out in the community. Some will have been administered but not yet entered on the National Immunisation Register and others are waiting to be administered around our one thousand or so general practices, several hundred pharmacies that have accredited vaccinators, and a range of other providers. And, of course, there have been challenges around distribution of stock, but any GP or pharmacy that has run out of stock at this point and still have at-risk people requiring vaccination should get in touch with their local immunisation coordinator, who have been coordinating the process of redistribution and/or prioritising access to the next shipment of vaccines when it arrives. Just putting that in context, remember that there is only 1 percent of the pre - COVID-19 number of international flights being undertaken. So we’ve worked hard to get a priority for those next two shipments of further vaccine, which are arriving this week and next week. To conclude with three important messages: first of all, if anyone has cold or flu-like symptoms, however mild, please do seek advice and ask about getting a test as quickly as possible. This is the point in time when we want to find any residual infections that could be COVID-19 out in the community. Please also check that your phone details are up to date with your GP practice. That will help if there’s any need for us to be able to contact you as part of contact tracing. And I guess my final important message is to thank all of you, as I have before, in the media for the important role you have played over the last three months in supporting our collective efforts to keep the public informed, to ask the important questions and the hard questions, and to ensure that we are being held to account for answering those. Thank you very much, and I’m open now to further questions. Media: Dr Bloomfield, have you talked to your counterpart or health counterparts in Australia around their processes and how you can match our processes to theirs if there was some kind of trans-Tasman bubble? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, we are in constant dialogue with our Australian counterparts. And it seems to me one of the things that will be very important if there is an agreement at the highest level to have a trans-Tasman bubble, that we are working very closely with our Australian counterparts on what those key public health pillars would need to be around how we are testing for, identifying, and isolating cases and contacts, and also our position around contact tracing and our ability to exchange information smoothly to ensure that any contacts or potential contacts could be followed up if they had travelled in either direction. Media: Are you confident, though, that you could get there with Australia—that they have the kind of health system that would, you know, reach that standard for you? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think we would need to be confident in each other’s capabilities in that regard, and my sense is—if I reflect how closely we have worked together over the last three months, right from the early days and trying to go very much in tandem with the range of moves we’ve made, whether it was around the border, around case definitions and sharing of information—I’m confident we could continue that to support a trans-Tasman bubble arrangement if that’s what the Governments agree. Media: Now that we’ve reached zero new cases, can you explain why we still need to stay in level 3 for the full two weeks? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, and the important thing here, of course, is that we are still wanting to be sure that there is no undetected community transmission out in our communities. We’ve had a week of testing out in the community to identify—so testing asymptomatic people in a range of settings, and that continues this week. And our public health units and DHBs have just got some very clear advice, detailed advice, around the sorts of environments they should be testing in, the numbers of people—for example, to the level of detail around which aged residential care facilities, how many people they should be sampling in each, supermarket workers they should be sampling, which people they should be sampling in healthcare settings as well. So reflecting on the incubation period of this virus—and it’s really later this week that we will be confident if we are or are not seeing new cases popping up in the community. So that’s why it’s very important we maintain the current posture. Media: How concerned are you about the long tail like we saw at Marist, for example? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, it’s clear from looking at other countries that are in a similar position, or have been in a similar position, there is a very long tail, and what we’re trying to do now, of course, is make sure we are, in effect, finding any potential additional cases that are associated with current cases or clusters. And what I can say, having just had an update on some of the cases that we had in the last week or so, where it wasn’t immediately clear what the exposure was, there has been wide testing around them of their work and family contacts and even more widely, and none of that testing has shown up with any further cases, which is reassuring, but we want to just make sure we are covering off that long tail. It’s been very interesting to see that what we’ve had in New Zealand mirrors what other countries have found as well. Media: How real is the risk that people look at the fact that there are no new cases and celebrate this news and think that we’re out of the woods and then go out there and breach the guidelines? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, it is a risk, and that’s why I’ve emphasised that this is just a point in time and it remains very important—very important—for us to maintain a discipline around this and be vigilant. We’re now a week away from Cabinet making a decision about a move to Alert Level 2. And I think both the Prime Minister and I have been clear that it’s not just the number of cases or the pattern but the level to which people are taking seriously the expectations, particularly around physical distancing, hygiene measures, and not really squandering the advantage we have created for ourselves. Media: Likewise, this is cause for celebration, isn’t it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I’m sorry? Media: And likewise, this is cause for celebration, though, isn’t it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: It is cause for celebration. I think it’s important that we reflect that it is symbolic of the effort that everybody has put in. So I don’t want to downplay that, but, once again, you know, we need to be continuing vigilance. So, yes, it is important we all collectively acknowledge this is the first day when we’ve had no new cases, and we want to keep it that way. Media: How many cases are you still investigating in terms of where they were? There’s two last week—I’m not sure if they’re being included. How many, do you think, are still possible community transmission? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So there are still the two, and just to describe a couple of those cases we had last week—one which was in Nelson-Marlborough and one which had been found through our surveillance testing of the workforce at Auckland Airport. In both instances, there was an explanation related to overseas travel some time ago, and it’s likely that the late positive test reflects the fact that these people had been infected and there were still fragments of the virus that showed up on the test. But it doesn’t necessarily mean they’re infective, and, more importantly, in testing all the people around them, there are no further positive tests. So that’s what we’re really looking for, even those cases where we can‘t necessarily fully explain where the infection might have occurred. Media: Dr Bloomfield, what’s the Government’s thoughts in terms of these sort of tests that can be carried out on location in a matter of minutes or hours as opposed to having to be sent to a lab? Is that something that you see any promise in or see a use for in our current situation? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So that’s a development we are watching carefully. What we’re most interested in at the moment, of course, is having the most accurate testing, and I think the point of care testing is still a bit like the antibody testing—there’s still questions about reliability and so it’s one to watch. Where it may be useful, if we can get some reliable point of care testing, could be, for example, in more remote locations, where it would speed up the turn-around time or, secondly, it may play a role in supporting us at the border and in particular with people who are flying out and are going to a country on business, for example, where they’re required to have a test. It could play a role there, but, again, at this stage, not sufficiently reliable and we will stick with the fact that we’ve got very good testing capacity right across the country, and we continue to work hard to make sure the turnaround times are quick on those. Media: This approach in public health, would you permit nurses to work on a COVID ward one day and another virus-free ward with high-risk elderly patients the next day? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I know there’s been some concern around this at Waitakere Hospital, and there’s been a response from one of the clinical leaders up there in the Auckland metro district health boards. I would rely on the advice of the clinicians, remembering that staff inside our hospitals day in, day out—particularly in the intensive care units—are working with, and caring for, people who have a whole range of infections. So the practice that the clinicians and the clinical experts are advising on there is based on experience and based on their very best advice. So I would defer to those clinical specialists for their advice. Media: But other public health experts we’ve spoken to are horrified that Waitakere did that. Would you agree with that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, again, I would be looking to the clinicians there who are working in those settings. They’re experts, and they would be providing the advice, and I would imagine that, like me, they would consider that what would be paramount would be ensuring that both staff and other patients in the hospital were kept safe. And hence I know that they will have very detailed procedures around the use of PPE, washing uniforms, and so on that would support safe practice. Media: That seems to defy common sense, though, when it’s such a virulent thing you’re dealing with, to have people moving in between wards with high-risk patients. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, again, I just point to the fact that, like us, I know that the teams leading the response up there rely on and put a lot of stock on getting the best possible clinical advice and that that is based on experience, of course. And, as I say, people working in all sorts of healthcare settings are dealing with infected—people with infections, a whole range of infections, in their usual daily practice, and that would be what they are basing their advice on. My expertise isn’t public health. I wouldn’t be second-guessing the advice that infectious disease specialists were giving. I think they are best placed to give that advice. Media: Dr Bloomfield, this approach that the Auckland DHB has taken around testing everyone that had any involvement with this Marist cluster—all students, teachers etc.— would you expect to see other DHBs take that on board with the other clusters that we have, and do that wider testing across other clusters as well? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I think there’s a very specific approach being taken with the Marist cluster, in particular the decision around reopening the school and to help inform the school, the students, and, of course, the school community more widely. In fact, in each of the clusters, in particular those ones in aged residential care facilities, there’s been quite wide testing of non-symptomatic residents and staff and also family members to help support control of those clusters. So certainly over the last couple of weeks, as we’ve learnt more about the transmission of this virus, we’ve moved much more to working with the DHBs around quite wide testing. And even in the case of individual cases, some individual cases we have seen where we’ve tested—for example, there was one in Hawke’s Bay where there was a resident at a campground there, or a holiday park. And testing has been offered to and conducted and most of the people living in that who were wanting to be tested—everyone who was offered a test was tested. Media: So you’re confident, then, that where there’s been any sort of build up or reaching that cluster point that there has been substantial testing in all of those areas already, based on rest homes, etc., or are there still some areas where we have had clusters identified where there hasn’t been that wider testing go on? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Look, for the last two or three weeks we’ve been advising on working closely with the public health units about quite wide testing of asymptomatic people, and I talk about this notion of putting a wide ring-fence around these clusters, and particularly in the ARC settings, but it’s also being used with some of these other clusters as well. Media: Dr Bloomfield, areas like Tai Rāwhiti in the West Coast haven’t had any new cases in two weeks. They’ve done a lot of community testing. Would they have a good argument, areas like that, for those regional bubbles we’ve talked about? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: They may do in the future. I think at the moment our advice, and I think the position, is we maintain a single national approach. And the advantage, of course, for those regional bubbles would be if that allowed interregional travel in particular, but otherwise it may allow some wider commerce retail and so on in those bubbles. We’re into the second week of Alert Level 3. As I say, we will not know until later this week whether that loosening of the restrictions from level 4 to level 3 anywhere, even if they haven’t had or have had cases recently—we won’t know if there are other cases out there that might spring up. So I think it’s the right position currently to keep everybody under the level 3. Regional differentiation may play a role in the future, but not at this point. Media: Dr Bloomfield, how far away is a decision on a contact-tracing app and do we need one to be in play here in New Zealand to move to level 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So on the first question, we’re currently finalising advice for Cabinet and it will be a Cabinet decision around both the functionality of and the timing of the use of an app and when that is made available. Do we need it to go into Alert Level 2? No, it’s quite clear from our experience here and even if we look at other countries that the mainstay of being able to support a move to ease restrictions is having that really good core contact-tracing system in place, which we’ve been working hard to strengthen. The app may play a role—or an app may play a role in supporting that, but it will be additional to what that core capacity is there. But not having an app in place won’t be a constraint to moving to level 2. Media: And in terms of breaches, is there a certain threshold for us not being able to move to level 2 because we can’t be certain that people haven’t been mingling? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t think there’s a level, but I think that it’s very important for all New Zealanders just to maintain the current expectations, and, you know, we did really well through Alert Level 4. We’re nearly there but let’s not slacken off now. We’re not putting a number on it but it will be clear if there is widespread behaviour, that could be creating risk, and I think that will definitely factor into the advice and the decision that Cabinet will make next week. Media: Dr Bloomfield, the New Zealand Private Surgical Hospitals Association has come out and said that 30,000 elective surgeries were postponed over level 4. How are we going to be able to cope with that backlog and what’s being planned at the moment to do that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, look, there’s a great deal of planning and action under way because we’re already into Alert Level 3 by a week. And that work is happening with the private hospitals because, clearly, they’re going to be an important part of catching up on that surgery and other procedures that were postponed. So, yes, this is the big challenge for the system—to do as much of that work as possible while still dealing with any acute care needs that come through the door and, of course, maintain vigilance and keeping things safe from a COVID-19 perspective. So there’s a challenge ahead but all the DHBs are focused very hard and on working with private sector to ensure we catch up on that backlog. Media: How long do you think it will take us to catch up? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Oh, look, it will clearly take some months. Media: So months rather than years? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Ah, well, obviously, we’d be aiming for months, because remembering that what we aim to do, of course, in a non - COVID-19 environment is to provide people with their first specialist assessment within a four-month period and then, if they’re deemed to need a procedure, to provide that within four months. So the aspiration is to get back to within those time frames again as quickly as possible. Media: Can I just clarify what the instruction for elective surgeries for over-70s and obese patients are during level 3 and level 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t know about level 2, but I did hear this morning, yes, the description around—in Alert Level 3, of course, when we still are in a situation where there may be risk to older people and people with pre-existing conditions, if their surgery can be deferred, then the advice is to defer that to avoid exposing them to any potential risk of COVID-19. Once we move down alert levels, then clearly there’s a much lower risk and then that stance wouldn’t continue. Media: [Inaudible] nurses moving between the COVID ward and other wards, each DHB seems to have different rules on this. Why are there not ministry guidelines on best practice? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, there are ministry guidelines on best practice for a lot of things, including use of PPE. But also recall that each hospital is different in terms of staffing, the sorts of services they provide, the way their wards are configured, the number of staff on shifts, the seriousness of the illnesses that they may be dealing with, so it’s absolutely appropriate that each hospital works out what is the best way to ensure that they are keeping staff safe, patients safe, while being able to run rosters to provide care—not just for those people with COVID-19 but all the other patients who are in the hospital as well. Media: But in this case we now have, what, 57 staff stood down so it doesn’t seem like the best approach, does it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think the approach to stand the staff down to head off any risk of further transmission is absolutely the right approach, and this is what we have done where we have had other cases like this. I, again, defer to the fact that the clinicians were actively leading the process of providing the advice, and they will continue to. In so saying, just as we have done in other settings, as we have learnt more in aged residential care about the nature of these infections and the way they transmit, we have constantly reviewed and updated our approach and our guidance. Media: Dr Bloomfield, Cabinet’s taking a look at what the rules will be at level 2. Have you given any particular advice about that, and when you balance the sort of “no new cases today” with the somewhat reckless behaviour, I guess, from a minority over the weekend, what sort of reckons do you have, or what have you suggested, based on that around those level 2 rules? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I can say, yes, of course we’ve provided advice into the issues around Alert Level 2 that Cabinet is considering today, and the Prime Minister will be able to update you on what Cabinet’s consideration was later today, but I can’t second-guess or pre-empt that. Media: But in terms of your own advice, given that we’re down to zero, but given you have been quite clear that people are not doing what’s been asked of them at level 3— some people—what’s the advice for level 2 to sort of balance those two things? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think that advice will be the advice we’ll provide and input into for Cabinet for next week’s decision. What they’re considering today is what the Alert Level 2 looks like in more detail, so that’s not the decision about whether to move to Alert Level 2. I think the balance of where the cases are coming from, the pattern, whether we are seeing new, emergent cases, and also the compliance with level 3 will be something they will consider next week. Media: So, just to clarify, you don’t give any specific advice about what level 2 may or may not look like—you just give the numbers, so to speak? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: We’ve given advice—very clear advice—that is being considered by Cabinet today about what level 2 looks like, along with all our agencies across Government. That’s what’s being considered today. What’s for next week is: is it appropriate for us to move to level 2? That’s the decision that Cabinet will be considering next week. Media: On the 57 staff stood down from Waitakere Hospital, has that created any staffing issues or shortages? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not as far as I know, and I did speak to the chief executive over the weekend. So they’re obviously having to move staff around to accommodate that and, indeed, move some of the patients, but that’s something that they will manage there. I think it’s appropriate they’ve taken a precautionary approach, and I know they will be doing some wide testing just to ensure that there has been no further transmission. Media: Dr Bloomfield, given the current border closures and the high proportion of migrants in our health sector, is the ministry worried about the long-term implications of staffing the health system if the borders remain closed for a long time, as they seem to be? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, one of the things we’ve been doing right from the start, as I think you know, is canvassing people who might have been out of the workforce for a range of reasons, and over 9,000 people have registered to be available to support the health system, if required. So my sense is we are able to manage with what we have got here, I’m sure, for some time. However, we will also be looking at, if there are emergent needs—including, for example, in the home and community support sector or aged residential care, where quite a number of the workers are from overseas—we would be working with the wider sector to find out what their needs are, and then providing advice in case we needed to change the immigration settings and the border settings to bring people in. Media: A question from our news room: is the Government tracking to see if people who are close contacts of a case are complying with those 14-day self-isolation rules, and, if so, what’s that compliance like? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So, at the moment, all those people are followed up daily with a phone call to check on what they’re doing, obviously, and also their health—if they have any symptoms and any welfare needs. It’s one of the areas we are looking at, as to whether that may need to be strengthened as we go into Alert Level 2—so perhaps shifting from phone calls to actual physical checks of people who are close contacts. Media: Does that suggest that sometimes, you know, the phone calls—the phone doesn’t get picked up and there are concerns that there might be non-compliance there? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: The feedback I have is that there’s very high levels of compliance and, in fact, if someone isn’t compliant, of course there is that opportunity for the medical officer of health to issue a section 70 notice and require them to go into supervised self-isolation. Media: Did police ever raise concerns with you that they did not have the legal power to enforce the lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Sorry—did? Media: Did police ever raise concerns with you that they didn’t have the legal powers to enforce the lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, they didn’t raise concerns but both ourselves and the police and Crown Law were very thoughtful about making sure that the section 70 notices that have been issued sequentially did provide a sound legal basis for the full range of expectations that we were putting on people, including the police powers to enforce those expectations. Media: The first section 70 notice you put out wasn’t until part-way through the lockdown, so were they not covered in that first part? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, our sense was they were. However, we felt that issuing a very detailed section 70 notice was the best way to just provide that assurance that there was the legal basis for them to exercise those powers. Media: Why was the decision made to use the Health Act rather than the civil defence Act in that case? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, actually, recalling also that there was a national emergency declared and that’s still actually in place, the fundamental reason we have put these very significant restrictions in place is because of a public health threat—the threat of a pandemic from an infectious agent. And so it’s very appropriate that we use these powers that are there under the Health Act 1956 and it was felt that was the best basis for providing a legal framework for the lockdown measures to be implemented. Media: But was there a point where police did not have that power to enforce the lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not that I’m aware of, and, as I say, we were in very close discussion with Crown Law and with the police right through the lockdown and then as we moved into Alert Level 3 as well. Media: Dr Bloomfield, it’s just been revealed in Australia that Scott Morrison has invited Jacinda Ardern to participate in a national Cabinet meeting tomorrow. What aspects of New Zealand’s response would you be keen for Jacinda Ardern to share with Australian leaders? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, you probably know I can’t pre-empt what the PM will discuss with her counterpart. I’m aware—and we’ve been providing and preparing advice for the Prime Minister for that discussion and she may well reveal later today or indeed tomorrow after the discussion exactly which issues were discussed. But, as you can imagine, of great interest, of course, is the idea of a trans-Tasman bubble, which has been well canvassed already. Media: Dr Bloomfield, is two weeks one incubation period and just that really enough time to figure out whether the level 3 restrictions, and perhaps people breaching even those, in terms of how relaxed they’re getting, would lead to more transmission? I mean, if someone was infected at one of these parties over the weekend, we might not see that until Tuesday or Wednesday of next week if the symptoms take long enough to come up. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, that is correct, and later this week we will know if there are new infections emerging, but we also, of course, will look back over the preceding four weeks, remembering that there wasn’t a bright line when we entered Alert Level 3, so we, looking back, will be able to look and see what is the pattern of cases over that full four-week period—so two incubation periods—and are there any new cases emerging. It may well be, even if the decision is made to go into Alert Level 2 and that progresses, that we may still see cases emerging, and that’s why it’s very important. That’s why we maintain our really strong posture around wide testing, surveillance testing, rapid contact tracing, and isolation of contacts if we do see those cases emerging. Media: Did those people that partied over the weekend, did they jeopardise our chance of moving into level 2? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I hope not. Media: Dr Bloomfield, if we were to open up the domestic travel again to all New Zealanders under level 2, would that make you nervous? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Sorry? Until we’re under level 2 or once we’re under level 2? Media: Sorry, under level 2. If we were to reopen domestic travel to all New Zealanders, would that make you nervous? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I’m not sure it would make me nervous. What I think it applies to, whether it’s domestic travel or other elements of what we want to do under Alert Level 2, which is open up more retail settings. There is a whole raft of things that would come into play. What would make me nervous is if we were not maintaining those core sort of public health behaviours that we will need to maintain around particularly physical distancing, hygiene, and not going out if people have any symptoms. So those are the things, not specific settings. It’s routinely making sure those are being observed in whatever the setting, including if it’s domestic travel. Media: Just on that, what do you think is the bigger concern—opening up the domestic airlines and things so people can move around, or more retail being open and people congregating more at, you know, restaurants and those sorts of things? What’s the bigger concern for you? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So none of them are a concern per se. Perhaps, to just go back to my previous response, the concern would be if we were relaxing, you know, the sorts of things we have now started to do more routinely around physical distancing and around, you know, not going out, either to work or to visit others if we have symptoms of a respiratory infection. Media: Is there a bigger risk, though, that comes with one of them? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not specifically. I think, again, the risks lies in the way that we go about those activities. And what we’ve seen in retail settings that have already opened up is that they can, for the most part—and there was some learning along the way— undertake activities in a way that actually does support the core public health principles that are underneath that apply, and also supports the behaviours that we need everybody to continue into Alert Level 3 and 2. Perhaps one more question if there is one. Media: Dr Bloomfield, just on a case where it says that the travel was from the Cook Islands, are you contact tracing that case of the woman down in Nelson and, obviously, trying to mitigate a bit of panic in the Cook Islands where they have zero cases? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, two things. First of all, we were communicating on the day that this was found out—well, the local public health officer was communicating with my counterpart, the equivalent of director-general in the Cooks, about that case. What’s not clear is whether that infection might have happened as part of the travel back from the Cooks. In fact, it’s very unlikely, because the Cooks hasn’t had any cases—but whether it happened in another setting during the period after that person arrived back. And so that’s more likely. So I don’t think it puts in jeopardy anything that might have happened in the Cooks there. I think there was one further question. Media: Dr Bloomfield, the influenza pandemic plan mentions SARS four times, including once in the glossary, and no other coronavirus mentions at all in there. Is there a case after this crisis abates for us to be more prepared for a wider range of pandemic threats, not just influenza but coronaviruses or re-emerging pathogens as well? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, I think there is. And one of the things we’ve had to do, and I think we’ve done effectively, is adapt our overall approach and influenza pandemic plan because we saw this was a different virus behaving in different ways in terms of its infectivity, in terms of the seriousness of infection in some people, and in terms of the mortality rate. So, yes, I think one of the things we will want to do will be to look at our pandemic plan so that it’s got more flexibility, depending on the nature of the agent that it’s responding to. Media: Was the plan not as flexible as you wanted it to be in retrospect? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I think the plan’s good in that it provides a framework and it’s still, I think, been a very good basis for our preparation and for our initial response. The key difference is that we made that early decision not to move into a manage it - type phase, and that was the key decision. But our actions under “Keep It Out” and “Stamp It Out” are really still very consistent with what is in the pandemic influenza plan, except we’ve taken them a lot further than perhaps happened 10 years ago with the swine flu pandemic, of course, because a much stronger response at the border, and then we’ve upped our capacity and capability around contact tracing in response to the differences between the two viruses. Media: In regions which appear to be completely coronavirus-free, is there an argument for a kind of case by case basis for relaxing of the rules for things that we’ve talked about before, like visiting people in hospital after surgeries and the like on compassionate grounds under level 3? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not at this point. I think it’s important—as I said, we may still see cases emerging later this week, and there’s no guarantee they won’t emerge even in those regions that don’t currently have a case. So now is the time for us to just maintain that vigilance right across the country. And as we move into Alert Level 2, that’s where, in the future, there may be a case for some regional differentiation. Media: And what kind of numbers should people be looking to at the end of the week in that kind of critical period that you’re looking at? What kind of case numbers should people be looking at to go, ah, that suggests we might move into 2 or not? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, again, I’m not going to pre-empt Cabinet’s decision, but what we will be looking for is low case numbers and knowing where all those cases are coming from. So being able to link them to our existing cases—that’s what’s critical. Thank you very much. Last modified: 5 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the daily media conference 5 May 2020 Last modified: 5 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Kia ora koutou katoa. Before we begin, I’ll take the usual practice of handing over to Dr Bloomfield first, to give us all an update on today’s numbers. Thank you, Prime Minister. Tēnā koutou katoa. Today, we have no new cases of COVID-19 to report. In addition, one case that was previously categorised as a probable case has been changed, and is now defined as not a case. So our overall total of confirmed and probable cases decreases by one to 1,486. Our total number of confirmed cases therefore remains at 1,137, and we will continue to report this number to the World Health Organisation, as we do update them each day. Yesterday, there were 3,232 tests processed at our laboratories around the country and the combined total to date is 155,928 tests. Of our cases, 1,302 are reported as recovered, which represents a total of 88 percent of our confirmed and probable cases. Today, there are four people in hospital and none of these is in ICU. There are no additional deaths to report. We still have the 16 significant clusters around New Zealand, with three now closed, as I’ve previously reported. One existing cluster—this is the St Margaret’s Hospital and Rest Home—has today had five new cases linked to it. It’s important to note these are not new cases; rather, what has happened is following further investigation, cases from what was previously considered a separate, smaller cluster have been linked to the St Margaret’s cluster, and those have been merged. These are existing cases, and none of them are patients at Waitakere Hospital. Obviously, having zero new cases of COVID-19 to report for a second day in a row is very encouraging, and all New Zealanders should feel pleased with their efforts—I certainly do—and of what we have achieved together over these last weeks. Of course, we must stick to the plan. The worst thing we could do now is celebrate success early before the full-time whistle blows, and jeopardise the gains we have made. Stay the course, stay in your bubble, and don’t squander what we have achieved by giving the virus a chance that it will only too readily accept if we do that. I just want to talk a bit about exemptions. We require anyone entering the country, as you know, to go into a 14-day period of either quarantine or managed isolation—the former if they are symptomatic. To date, since 20 March, around 6,000 returned travellers to New Zealand have gone into managed isolation or quarantine, and there are currently 179 people in quarantine facilities and just under 2,800 people in managed isolation. These precautions are obviously to prevent the virus coming into our country and to ensure that all New Zealanders are protected. There is, of course, a process for requesting an exemption, including on compassionate grounds, and the ministry has to date received 24 such requests that relate to a dying relative. As you know, there has been a judicial review of one of those requests which last Friday resulted in the court intervening, and a personal visit was organised. As a result of that judicial review, I’ve asked our team to review previous similar requests to ensure that they followed the correct process and take into account the judge’s findings. I should also point out that it won’t be the same team doing that review of those cases, but they are being done by a separate team that is in the National Crisis Management Centre, which considers all those requests for exemption for domestic travel. So they are being done by an entirely separate group of people. The review started today. I have asked for it to be completed as soon as possible this week. Today is International Midwives’ Day, and I want to shout out to all the midwives who work in Aotearoa New Zealand as both lead maternity carers in the community and our core midwives in hospitals and our primary birthing units. Ngā mihi nui ki a koutou. There are about 3,200 of these essential front-line workers and they undertake important work across our communities. And during the period of lockdown, around 6,000 babies were delivered; many, if not all, with the help of those midwives. So once again, I want to acknowledge the wonderful work they do, not just today but each day. Today is also World Hand Hygiene Day. Now, that’s very apposite at this time, but I also should point out that every day at the moment should be World Hand Hygiene Day, and it’s a very important reminder today of the importance of what is a very simple action that prevents passing on any infection but, in particular, at the moment, greatly reduces the risk of passing on the COVID-19 infection. And, fittingly this year, the campaign theme is “SAVE LIVES: Clean Your Hands”. Prime Minister, I’m happy to leave it there and hand back to you. Thank you very much, Dr Bloomfield. Can I reiterate your thanks to those who are our midwives in our communities. And it is in times like this that we acknowledge the role that they play for many mums to be within their community and within their whānau, and they always go above and beyond. I just want to acknowledge that—and also, of course, world hand washing day as well. Achieving zero cases two days in a row is the result of New Zealanders demonstrating a level of commitment and discipline to our goal of winning the fight against COVID-19. That we can all be undeniably proud of. It points to our lockdown doing exactly what we’d planned it to do: break the chain of transmission. However, we know the virus can have a long tail, and that other cases can pop up; so, as we make our way through this week and head towards the level 3 review next week, my message remains: don’t do anything that snatches our potential victory at this point. One case at one gathering has led to multiple clusters, and the virus getting away on us can still happen. So my message remains the same for the remainder of the week: stay home, stay in your bubble, maintain physical distancing, and let’s double down this week to maintain this good run of numbers. I’m also mindful that I have seen positive numbers in other places before and it’s not always sustained; so we do need to still be cautious. Before I come to Australia, I want to give you a quick update on the progress of the support and assistance for businesses and their workers hit by COVID-19. This afternoon, the COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Bill will have its first reading in Parliament. It gives effect to a range of measures the Government has put in place to support businesses through the pandemic, including helping businesses facing insolvency to remain viable by hibernating existing debt until they can trade normally again; changes to the parental leave scheme to allow essential workers to return to work without being disadvantaged by losing entitlements to certain leave and payments; and changes that will allow the likes of the Heart Foundation and Coastguard and particularly the Countdown Kids Charitable Trust to process their fund-raising lotteries through email, phone, and electronic payments. These are just some of the inadvertent consequences of this extraordinary time we’re in and the resolution that we’re finding for those problems. The first reading of the bill will take place this afternoon. It will be referred to the Epidemic Response Committee for consideration and reported back to the House on Tuesday, 12 May. It will then move through the remaining legislative stages as quickly as possible. I’ve just come from a meeting of the Australian National Cabinet, a gathering of Australia’s state and federal leaders, to discuss our experience with COVID-19 on both sides of the Ditch, what we can learn from one another, and how we might be able to work together as we recover from this pandemic. The National Cabinet tends to meet in times of national crisis but, obviously, is infrequent—the last New Zealand Prime Minister to participate in such a meeting was Peter Fraser, who attended various meetings of Australia’s War Cabinet. Australians and New Zealanders travel across the Ditch more than they do anywhere else. New Zealand is Australia’s second-largest source of tourists after China, with 1.2 million visitors last year, and 1.6 million Aussies visited us. So we both stand to benefit from getting travel up and running again. Part of the reason for so much travel is that families and friendships, of course, span the Tasman. There are around 75,000 Australians in New Zealand, and more than half a million Kiwis in Australia. We’re also Australia’s largest export market by number of exporting firms—18,500 Aussie businesses trade with New Zealand, meaning we’re especially critical for Australian SMEs. So the case for increasing economic relations when safe is clear. I joined the meeting at the very, very beginning and, I should note, it is still under way, and so you’ll forgive me for not saying too much here at this point. But it is our intention to issue a statement at the conclusion of the National Cabinet in order to provide you all with an update of some of the issues discussed, and some of the potential outcomes of that meeting. But again, I would note such a discussion has only been possible as a result of the world-leading resolve from both sides of the Tasman to get the virus under control, and I do think that we should both be proud of the efforts that have been made and also, again, the demonstration of the important Anzac bond between us. On to a bit of Kiwi ingenuity, I’ve outlined a few innovations today that are helping to get our economy moving. I want to reflect on one of those in particular, and that is our vital supply chain—our transport sector. New ways of working have ensured our food and goods have been unpacked from ships and aircraft, loaded into trucks, and delivered to retailers, as well as kept our exports flowing. At Wellington CentrePort, the teams eliminated face-to-face contact and physical paperwork and they’ve adopted digital kiosks, radio comms, automated weigh-bridges, and virtual planning meetings. We’ve seen that same kind of adaptability in businesses up and down the country. Just one example is how two particular drivers, Greg and Sam, have willingly changed their hours of work and routines to match the different Interislander ferry timetables so they can continue to get frozen vegetables and chips from Ashburton to the ferries in Picton. I want to say thanks to Greg and Sam. Necessity breeds innovation and with social distancing and good hygiene likely of course to be with us for a long time to come, I wouldn’t be surprised if we keep seeing innovation throughout our alert levels and across the country. Happy to take your questions. Media: How would you characterise the enthusiasm for the trans-Tasman bubble from the Australian side and learning of course that New Zealand’s had two days of zero cases in a row, Australia’s had a couple of cases, largely built around one factory in Victoria, so it [Inaudible] how safe it might be. PM: Well, look, I think the important message there is that it doesn’t much, and that, I think, reinforces why we continue to share that message of “stay the course”. We have seen across the Ditch very low numbers, and then it can only take one outbreak in one workplace or one environment for you then suddenly to have an uptick, and that is why it is so important we stick with our restrictions. Look, the other takeaway for me—and I say this just generally, regardless—is actually there are a lot of similarities in the way that we have each tried to manage COVID and get on top of it and get back in control, and therefore there’s the same goals for both of us. Neither of us want cases of COVID coming between our countries. Neither of us would want the burden of that. So I think regardless of our future path we’ll be looking for ways to do it safely. That would be top of mind. Media: Prime Minister, was there any pushback from any of the state leaders? Did any of them feel that this push for a trans-Tasman travel bubble is too ambitious? Because many Australian states still have their state borders closed. PM: Yeah, and so, again, I do want to respect the fact that the National Cabinet is still meeting, and I do also want to respect the fact that we were meeting within in a Cabinet environment so that means, of course, you’ll know that when I’m talking about Cabinet often speak in very general terms. But again, this is not to get ahead of a decision. There are, obviously, within Australia, still restrictions around domestic travel and those are, ultimately, issues for Australia. I think, simply, the position that I would take on behalf of New Zealand is that when we feel comfortable and confident that we both won’t receive cases from Australia, but equally that we won’t export them, then that will be the time to move. Media: And can you just be clear on whether or not there would be a quarantine at either border? PM: Oh, the whole purpose of us discussing the possibility of having a bubble of sorts between us—a safe zone of travel—would be so that you wouldn’t have to have a quarantine attached. I think everyone would acknowledge that it would be prohibitive. People just wouldn’t travel if they had to stay on either side in quarantine for a two-week period and have to do the same again when you return. But there is still a lot of work to be done before we can progress an idea like that, but it’s obviously been floated because of the benefits that it would bring. Media: Taking into account all of those things—that we’d need to ensure that we weren’t further transmitting the virus—what kind of certainty or clarity can you give to New Zealanders in Australia who want to come home and see their families? When will they be able to do that? PM: Of course, I’d say to New Zealanders in Australia you can come home but, of course, at the moment we are still requiring that quarantine to keep you safe and to keep your family safe. But we are also actively considering what the future looks like for us. I’m very keen, of course, as I’ve always said, that the advantage we have—getting back in control of the virus—has been to try and get back to some form of normality. International travel won’t feel like that for some time, but if we can find a way to make it work with Australia, then that would give that sense of normality, if we can make it work. Media: [Inaudible] under level 2? PM: Oh, again, for really the alert level framework within New Zealand. Of course, for us it’s actually more the criteria of what we’re seeing on both sides of the Ditch with our cases, with our controls, and with our border management. Media: Can you see a situation where we would have a trans-Tasman bubble but exclude one of the Australian states, for example? PM: For me, it actually really comes down to a determination at a state and federal level by Australia. So that’s less of—other than, of course, we would have some expectations of when travel resumes, or if we’re able to establish this kind of bubble, making sure we were doing it safely for us. And so that would mean, if we were seeing a cluster of cases or growth in cases or outbreaks, that we would have to look at changing what we were doing and what we were receiving on our side. But, ultimately, I still see that as part of the arrangements that need to be made between the states and at a federal level. Media: Are you able to give us any more clarity on time frame? PM: No. No, I do want to let that meeting conclude, and, of course, at the moment what we’re discussing here is a concept that’s been floated for some time, but I do want to allow the meeting to at least draw to a conclusion before we go any further. Media: Prime Minister, what is your view on how the applications for compassionate exemptions have been handled, given every single one has been declined for that particular circumstance? PM: Yeah, look, I would anticipate that Dr Bloomfield probably has a similar view to me on this matter. The whole point of having the ability to apply for a compassionate exemption was so that we could assess the circumstances. There should be nothing automated about that. We should give genuine consideration for each of those applications, because they would only have been made because of dire circumstances. Now, I absolutely appreciate the reason we put that in place was we didn’t want double grief. We didn’t want a situation where people entered into a risky situation for them and their families, but, equally, we wanted to give them a chance to ask, to see if there was a way it could be managed. Media: Can you clarify the situation for people wanting to travel within New Zealand, rather than coming from overseas, and being in quarantine, and is that a lower threshold? PM: Sorry, what was that? Media: If people have a dying relative in another part of the country— PM: Yes. Media: —would there be a lower threshold for allowance to go— PM: And that’s some of the kinds of scenarios that, of course, then you would want considered when looking at some applications, as to the degree to which it can be conducted safely. You see the conditions for the person who made a case to the court were very, very specific about private residence, private travel. And so, really, the Ministry of Health are having to weigh up some quite complex situations and making sure they also weigh up keeping other New Zealanders safe as well. Media: But are you happy with the criteria that have been applied? Obviously, criticism of the judgment—and maybe Dr Bloomfield can comment on this—about the way these applications have been handled? And, obviously, this is not a clock you can turn back. PM: Yeah, look, obviously, the judgment, as I read it, was more about the process rather than the fact that the Ministry of Health wanted to be able to assess and use criteria to deem if something could be safe. But, ultimately, it is the right decision to go back and look at each of them again, and I am pleased that the Ministry of Health are doing that at the request of the Minister of Health. That is the right thing to do. You’re right, though, these are incredibly difficult circumstances, and I can’t imagine being in that situation. In fact, one of the things I have found the hardest about the lockdown we have been in is the loss of people’s friends and their family at that time. Media: But when you said yesterday that there were 18 exemptions, you said that does suggest there’s been due consideration. So the fact that there haven’t actually been 18 exemptions, and you were given dud advice and I recognise that—but the fact that there haven’t been, does that suggest there wasn’t due consideration? PM: That upholds the decision that has been made to go back and look at each of those cases. Decisions shouldn’t be made in an automated way; they should be given due consideration. Every individual case should be considered, because these are people’s lives. Media: But how can you reconcile that when in the time that you need to do this review, and perhaps you can comment on that as well, Dr Bloomfield, in the time that you do this review and the time that those applications were made and declined, family members are dying? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So a couple of comments there. First of all, as I said, I’ve asked the team to do this as rapidly as possible, and I had a briefing from them this morning about the process, first of all to ensure it’s done independently and, secondly, to make sure it is done expeditiously, and I recognise the time imperative here. So they are on to that immediately. The second thing is, and this goes to the earlier question about the criteria and the process—and I had, in fact, already asked the team over a week ago, before this case came through, to re-look at the process and the criteria as we move down alert levels and as we were able to better manage the risk of people coming into the country, and they had that process under way. They are now also looking at the judgment from last Friday to ensure that the findings of the judge are actually informing the review of the process and criteria too. Media: Would that review include the ability, if it’s still relevant for people, for them to be able to then go and see a relative that they have previously had declined, even under appeal? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, definitely, and that’s one of the key purposes of that review of every case, and they are prioritising the ones that are the most pressing in terms of the time frames. Media: In terms of the time frame, are you aware of how many of those cases it’s now too late—that person has now passed away? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, I don’t have any information about that at the moment. PM: One thing, I think, just for context: these are devastating cases. The incredibly difficult judgment the Ministry of Health are making is that, from memory, we’ve had over 20 cases of people who have been in isolation, having come in from overseas, who have subsequently tested positive for COVID. So that is the really difficult position that those making those judgments are in, but it’s absolutely right that we go back and check again that the right judgment has been applied. Media: Related to this, so not from people who are in quarantine but just in general, compassionate grounds for being able to be with somebody who’s in a hospital or the like—we’ve spoken to a woman who’s had to go through a miscarriage in hospital alone during level 3. Is that fair? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I can’t comment on that particular case, but once again, there is a process for exemptions for travel, inter-regional travel, that is dealt with by the National Crisis Management Centre, and they’ve had many hundreds of applications and they have approved quite a number of those—I don’t have the exact numbers. PM: Are you just implying someone in a hospital was unable to have someone accompany them? Media: A support person. And we’re also hearing that DHBs have different policies, allowing different support people in with different patients for appointments. Why those discrepancies across the DHBs? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So I can just comment on the latter. We certainly have an updated visitor policy that applies to level 3, and that has been revised for level 2 as well. But a key part of that is an assessment by the person who is in charge of the ward or the environment where a patient is to make sure that they are able to balance up the potential benefits, of course, to the individual with any risk and how that risk can be managed, and it’s very important that we enable whoever it is who’s in charge of the care of the person to be able to apply that judgment within a framework that we’ve agreed nationally. Media: Do you recognise how terrifying that is, though, to have to go through something like that anyway, but to have to go through it alone? PM: Yes, and, obviously, that’s something that we had an expectation, of course, that through the different levels, different judgments would be applied. It’s a bit hard for us to comment on that without knowing the DHB, the facility, and the circumstances, but you will have heard Dr Bloomfield speak many times about trying to create a protocol that really does give that flexibility on the ground to those who know their wards and know their spaces well. Media: Dr Bloomfield, can I just clarify about the—sorry, just coming back to an earlier question—threshold for moving around the country because of the risk that isn’t there because of people arriving from overseas. Is it exactly the same criteria, or are they being allowed a bit more leniency if it’s within New Zealand, given that that international risk isn’t there? Prime Minister and Director-General of Health press conference page 7 of 11 PM: So you’re saying someone who comes in from overseas— Media: No, someone who’s already in New Zealand— PM: Ah, forgive me—and is moving around regionally. Media: —and is just moving around regionally. Are they being applied in a different way because that overseas risk isn’t present? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t know the detail of that, but I can absolutely get that information. What I can say is that process is run not by the Ministry of Health team, which oversees the process for people who have come in and are in quarantine or manage self-isolation; it is run by a team in the National Crisis Management Centre. PM: From what I’ve seen, yes, because there we’ve had reunification of parents and children in a number of other circumstances, so very, very different circumstances. They have to be dealt with through regional transfers. Media: And only through the application that people can apply, basically, for travel exemptions—that would be the process that applied to that one? PM: Yes, that’s my recollection. Media: On the COVIDSafe app, did you discuss that at all with Australia today, and how likely is it that we’ll be adopting the same app? PM: Again, you’ll forgive me for not getting into a huge amount of specificity, but actually, when it comes to that, most of my conversations have tended to be directly with PM Morrison because, of course, most of the design development is being dealt with at that level. So that’s something that we’ve tended to discuss when we’ve had the opportunity one on one. Media: Australian media reported yesterday that New Zealand would be adopting that app. Was that erroneous? PM: Well, look, I guess you could—if I’m being generous—of course, I’ve always said we’re looking at the Singapore app, which is what the Australia app is based on. So perhaps, if they’re taking an assumption there, that therefore it makes it a direct link, but I’m probably being generous. Media: I just have a question about Cabinet’s decision to give Government departments a bit of a break from providing regulatory impact assessments until the end of August. Have any departments come forward and said, “Actually, we have the capability and we can do these statements and maybe we should do them anyway just for a matter of public record.” Have they offered that? PM: No one has put a ban on regulatory impact statements by any stretch. Of course, you will see—and it’s not uncommon from time to time when the House is dealing with matters of urgency for regulatory impact statements to not be part of a bill when it’s immediately tabled and debated. So, when you have shortened time frames, that’s not unusual, but it is also not ideal. I would have to go and check whether or not any agency had expressed a view, but, as I say, we’ve certainly not said we don’t want regulatory impact statements. We’ve simply acknowledged how difficult it is with the time frames we’ve been working to. Media: Have any of those departments with the policies already announced—have any of them done, like Treasury for example, done statements and just said, “Here’s the statement, anyway.”—just kind of FYI? PM: Look, I couldn’t answer a question like that with confidence. Of course, a number of policy decisions have been made, but they’re equally all part of proactive release as well. So all of that, in time, will be made available. Media: Prime Minister? PM: Oh, sorry, I thought you’d had a question. Go ahead. I’m just offering them willy-nilly now! Go ahead. Media: The tourism industry, obviously, has been hit a lot harder than most when it comes to COVID-19. I was speaking to some Māori tourism businesses this morning. They said extending the wage subsidy deep into the winter months would help them ward off making more redundancies. Is that something that the Government will consider—extending that exclusively for industries like tourism, where the effects will be far, far longer? PM: Yeah, as we’ve said, we’re moving into a phase of really looking at what sector-by-sector support may need to look like, depending on the ongoing level of impact. There are certain industries that will be affected for some time, even when we get to some level of normality, just because, for instance, our borders are closed or there are restrictions still on mass gatherings. So we are looking at being more specific and more targeted in our support. At the same time, we also need to encourage innovation. COVID will be with us for some time as a globe, and so we do need adaptation amongst some of those different industries to cope with that new environment. Media: What will the Government be doing, then, to help [Inaudible] speaking with the mayor this morning. Pre-COVID, 32 percent of the people in Rotorua were a part of the tourism workforce. That’s a third of the workforce. What will you do to stop these cities becoming ghost towns? PM: Two things, of course, is that domestic tourism is part our tourism infrastructure—for some more than others. So getting the virus under control puts us in a position down the track to be able to open that back up, and that’s a win for that sector. But, secondly, we are thinking again around the longer-term role that we need to play to support some of those hardest-hit sectors. Media: When will that decision come? Because a lot of businesses in those industries are saying that, with the wage subsidy ending in approximately four weeks, they’re looking at pulling the trigger on redundancies now. PM: Yeah, and, look, obviously, we are thinking about the time frames around when the wage subsidy phases out and what we look to do next for those hardest-hit sectors. At the same time, I do encourage those who are working in tourism to start making those assessments of how dependent their business is on overseas travel, because we will not have open borders for the rest of the world for a long time to come. Media: But, even in retail and hospitality, those businesses—they’re still going to be impacted. When can they get a sense of surety about what sort of support they might receive? PM: Of course, at the moment, we’ve focused very, very much on getting to a position where they can start trading again, which is our immediate focus this week on providing some framework for them to be able to prepare and get ready for our timetable going forward—if we manage to keep our results looking as they are. Media: Dr Bloomfield, do you have an update on the situation at the Waitakere Hospital and how many staff have been tested and whether there’s any more clarity about where those cases originated? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So what I do know is that there were the three nurses who had all nursed the six COVID-positive patients who had come from St Margaret’s. There has been wide testing of their close contacts, both family and work, and no further positives there—sorry, except for one of the nurses, a family probable case. But I don’t have any other further information. They’re all still in isolation and there is, obviously, an audit under way to try to find out what the source of the infection was for those three nurses. Media: And is it right that all staff have been offered testing? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes. All of the staff who would be close contacts and who have been stood down would be offered testing. Media: Is it fair to say that this is a wake-up call for that practice, allowing staff to move between COVID and non-COVID wards? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, what it is—and this is what we’ve done right through over the last few weeks—is a learning experience. So there is a review under way. It’s going to be reporting by Friday this week. It includes senior people from within the district health board as well as an independent person from—the Director of Nursing from Waikato DHB, and we’re as interested in this and I think all DHBs are interested, what can we learn, how do we strengthen our protocols and make sure that we are reducing the risk to our front-line health workers, and this will provide us with information for that. PM: It’s still important, just to reiterate, they weren’t working between wards on a single shift. Media: Prime Minister, you previously said that if someone has symptoms, even if they’re not too severe, they should be able to go get a test. Should someone who’s in managed self-isolation after having entered the country and has mild symptoms like a sore throat or nausea—should they have been tested? PM: I’m expecting that’s for the doctor. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, certainly everybody in managed isolation is checked at least daily, of course, and if appropriate and there are clinical staff on site—if appropriate there would be a low threshold for testing. That doesn’t mean everybody would necessarily be tested, but I know there would be a low threshold. Media: [Inaudible] repatriation flights practise social distancing? We’re hearing that people on, for example, one of the flights from India in the economy class seats were sat next to each other with no space between them. Is that something that concerns you? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, I know there will have been careful thought put into how to reduce the risk of anyone on a flight being infected, and that will include pre-screening before people even get on the flight as well as measures during a flight and afterwards. And then, of course, all of those people are going into the mandatory 14 days’ managed isolation when they get back. Media: Prime Minister, just on trans-Tasman travel, one of the possible issues is whether insurers will actually cover people for travel insurance if they get sick in the other country, given a declared pandemic is still in place. Has any consideration been given to this? PM: I see that as a hypothetical quite far down the track. I think the first step would actually be working on the future prospects of the travel plan rather than all of the things that act as a by-product from that. Media: Do you support Taiwan re-joining the WHO? PM: As you can imagine, the WHO membership is not something I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about at present. Media: Why doesn’t New Zealand have a position on this? PM: Again, because it’s not my decision around WHO membership. As with collective institutions, there’s a much wider body that makes these decisions. But, again, it’s not something I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about. Media: Are you weighing up the risk to mental health with the risk of catching COVID when it comes to people having to go through tragic experiences alone, and, if I could also just compound on that, a lot of the DHBs are referencing allowing people in on compassionate grounds. What do you consider compassionate grounds? PM: Again, look, there are a range of considerations that the Ministry of Health are using, and there’s good reason why these aren’t decisions that have been made by us, but by people who are weighing up health and mental health wellbeing. And those will be things that those who work in health will be thinking about. We have been thinking about the mental health of all New Zealanders; New Zealanders who lose individuals, who lose family members, who lose friends, but also who are just finding isolation a real struggle. And one of the things that has probably surprised me the most, I’ve received multiple letters from people who have lost family members in the most devastating circumstances, who’ve written just to say it was hard, but they still thought it was the right thing to do, to act the way we have been. That, to me, demonstrates a huge amount of selflessness of those people on behalf of all of New Zealand. Media: Have you received the Crown Law advice on the Ruby Princess yet, and will you be taking that— PM: No. Let me follow it up. The last time I checked it was something that they were working alongside those agencies who had direct responsibility for the legislation; primarily, and obviously, Customs playing a big role there. So it’s a reminder for me to check back in on that. Thank you. Media: In terms of the bubble, has any work been done on when we open up to travel across the whole of New Zealand—so New Zealand’s bubble—how long we would have to wait to percolate, if you like, before we could go into a trans-Tasman bubble? PM: Actually, for me, this is a chance to make sure that we get things at our domestic airports right. We do have an aviation advisory group that are meeting together this week and have been working on all of the issues you would expect us to have thought through for the more fulsome resumption of domestic travel. We do want to make sure that when people are travelling domestically, particularly on planes and through airports, that they are doing it safely. That’ll give us a bit of a start on what it might look like if, in the future, we’re opening up more broadly with other borders. Media: A time frame on that—I mean, have you done any work on whether that would say be a month or two months, or— PM: For a trans-Tasman? Media: So for how long we would have to stay in just a New Zealand bubble before we opened it up. PM: Well, actually what’s interesting—New Zealand is, of course, one border, so really what we are doing now is testing whether or not we have issue with community transmission. That then is being replicated at state level; that’s why, obviously, decisions need to be made in Australia between how they’re going to resume their domestic movements, but that’s obviously a matter for them. Media: Prime Minister, the National Party today put up a proposal for $8 billion of spending to help business. They say this is both more targeted and more generous than what your Government has done so far. It’s a mixture of GST refunds and tax breaks, and it would only go to businesses who can show two months of continuous 50 percent loss of revenue, so much more targeted than the wage subsidy. What do you make of a plan like that? Does that make some sense? PM: Look, to be honest, I haven’t had a huge amount of time to look into the detail of what they propose. It’s not clear to me—I’m assuming that this is instead of what we have proposed—and, in part, I would be surprised by that, because the wage subsidy has made a huge difference to a number of businesses with varying different circumstances but all who have had need and it has kept employees directly connected to their workplace. And it did it quickly; within days of application we were managing to get money out the door. I know it’s made a difference and I will be surprised if the National Party didn’t support that. Media: Will you be spending up to $8 billion next week, or is that a bit more than you really have on hand? PM: I obviously won’t be giving away any of our future spending decisions from the Budget, but if you look back on the wage subsidy, that’s been over $10 billion directly into the pockets of people who may have found themselves otherwise unemployed, and an extra $3 billion directly into our tax system to help with small businesses who are experiencing tough times right now. Media: Very quickly on the zero cases—how did you react when you learnt we had consecutive zeros? PM: Again, you know, I’m pleased. Every time we have a good result, of course I’m pleased, but for us it’s about sustaining this and so never get ahead of ourselves is the message right now. Thanks everyone. Last modified: 7 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers : Watch the media conference. Last modified: 6 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern: Tēnā koutou katoa. Good afternoon. I wanted to talk today about some of the work taking place in New Zealand’s economy to get us working again and how we can leverage our strong health response to COVID to create some economic advantage for New Zealand going forward. But, first, I’ll hand over to Dr Bloomfield for his health update. Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. So today we have two new cases of COVID-19 to report. This comprises one confirmed and one probable case. The confirmed case is linked to the Marist College cluster. The person who has tested positive for COVID-19 is a student who has been, like the rest of New Zealand, in lockdown under alert level 3, and then under the alert level 3 restrictions—sorry, lockdown under alert level 4, and then under level 3, since March 20th. They had been contacted by Healthline in the first week of April as part of the contact tracing and were not unwell at that time, so did not progress to testing at this stage. So it was part of the broader testing of Marist students and staff as they head back to school. Around 250 people have been tested so far. This is the only positive result from that group. The student has what we would call a weak positive test, and is almost certainly late in the course of an infection. The significance of the weak positive result so late in the course of the illness when the symptoms that the student reported were actually some weeks ago—it’s not fully understood, and it’s likely the person is not infectious at this stage, and this is a pattern we have seen in some of our recent cases and it also has been observed internationally. And the South Koreans have done a study on a group like this and subsequently followed that up with a study that suggested that this was the result of some viral fragments still being detected by the testing but not that the people were infective. In so saying, we are taking a precautionary approach—as we should—and the student will remain in isolation and be retested in a week’s time. I think this case that’s been discovered through this testing across the Marist community shows the importance of that sort of testing, and I’d encourage others from the Marist College community to go and be tested if they haven’t as yet. The other case we’re reporting—the probable case—is linked to the St Margaret’s Hospital and Rest Home cluster, and this is a household contact of a known case. It’s a probable case because the person has symptoms, but it has been tested as negative but still considered to have COVID-19. It will be important to understand the transmission path of any cases we do find in coming days, as we’ve said before, and our teams are working very closely with public health units to ensure that we get that information as quickly as possible. So the total number of New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases is 1,488, and 1,138 of those are confirmed and we will be reporting that number through to the WHO. There are—88 percent of all probable and confirmed cases are now considered recovered. We have two people in hospital today. One is in Auckland City and one in Middlemore Hospital, and neither are in ICU. Sadly, today, I have another COVID-19 - related death to report. This is associated with the cluster at the Rosewood Rest Home and Hospital. The person who has passed away is a woman in her 60s. She had underlying health conditions and was considered a probable case of COVID-19 due to her clinical presentation and past exposure history, despite testing negative. This woman has been at Rosewood since 2011 and was a much loved member of the Rosewood family, and I’m pleased to say—and you will, I’m sure, join me in understanding that a staff member was comforting her when she passed away. She was not one of the residents who had been transferred to Burwood Hospital, but was still at Rosewood, and our thoughts of course go out to her family and her friends today in the days and weeks and months ahead. Regarding our testing, there were 4,772 tests processed yesterday, bringing our total to 160,700 tests. There are no new clusters and, as I’ve reported previously, three clusters are now closed. So, finally, our low number of COVID-19 cases continues to be encouraging, but we are by no means out of the woods. We need everyone to stick to the plan and continue to follow the rules around alert level 3, and not doing so does risk undoing all the good work we have achieved so far. We have seen how quickly this virus can spread, both here and in other countries, so do not give it an inch. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Director-General. Some of you will be aware of the news announced by Microsoft this morning that it is set to make a significant investment to establish a data centre region in New Zealand for its cloud services. I do note that this is subject to normal regulatory approvals. However, this is a hugely welcome development, not least for job opportunities in the near term for our construction industry, and in the longer term for our ICT industry and local innovators, but because it serves as a signal to the world that New Zealand is open for business and quality investment. Our decision to go hard and go early on the health front for COVID-19 has been our best economic response. Now, it’s about positioning New Zealand to recover, and building on investment opportunities such as this one. More broadly, it is my view that by tackling the virus, we have positioned our economy to be able to rebuild ahead of many others globally. That is our safe haven, strategic advantage. International companies like Microsoft wouldn’t be investing here or looking to invest here if they didn’t have full confidence in the New Zealand economy that we are ready to welcome quality investment and to offer a safe place for operation in both a health and business sense. Today’s announcement also represents a vote of confidence in New Zealand’s digital future. It means the Government and New Zealand businesses and New Zealanders will be able to access the scale and security of cloud services offered by a major global provider in a way that hasn’t been done before here in New Zealand. I have two other pieces of economic news that I would just like to note, as well. Trade Minister, David Parker, has announced that the 21 APEC economies have committed to working together to ensure trade and investment continues to flow to help counter the economic impact of COVID-19. This will promote a more stable trading environment for our food exporters and it will also help provide reliable access to medical supplies. To quote the Minister: “In these troubled times, our region has recognised how important it is to act in concert to keep supply chains open and trade flowing, especially in essential goods and services.” And employment figures released this morning by Statistics New Zealand, while covering the period before the worst of the COVID-19 impact, show the economy’s underlying strength heading into this global pandemic. In the three months to the end of March, the number of employed people rose by 19,000, while the number of unemployed was up by 5,000. The employment rate rose to 67.5 percent, while the unemployment rate also rose slightly from 4 to 4.2 percent—remaining near its lowest levels in a decade. Obviously, a huge amount has changed in the last six weeks in New Zealand, and this global, one-in-100-year health and economic crisis will contribute to unemployment rising— of that there is no doubt. But we will continue to support people, to help protect jobs, to help grow jobs, and help support people’s incomes. Fittingly, our Kiwi ingenuity story for today is a business story from the West Coast of the South Island, where people are working together to make sure that they are supporting one another. I recently had a letter from Development West Coast to let me know that a coordinated effort has brought together an online directory of 180 local businesses that are back operating under level 3. There’s also help for small and medium businesses in the form of a rebate of $5 per delivery, up to a maximum of $250 per establishment, to help offset some of the costs associated with running a delivery service or using a courier service: www.nowopen.co.nz is a great initiative and a platform built in collaboration with EPIC Westport, a PGF-funded digital hub. And I say well done to them. Ready for questions. Media: Prime Minister, did you have a chance to hear the submissions at committee today? PM: No, on account of, often, the overlap between Cabinet committees and the epidemic committee. But I do make a habit of getting a read out and feedback from those who are appearing and sharing testimony at the committee. Media: If I could just run you through a few of the things that we heard—if you’ll bear with me. There was a woman with breast cancer who was left financially vulnerable because she had to pay for her own mastectomy. There was a woman who learnt of a miscarriage on her own in hospital while her husband was in the hospital carpark. There was a mother who learnt she had terminal cancer. We heard of a mother who learnt she had terminal cancer over the phone. We heard the story of another mother whose enduring image of her son will be when he was taken away by paramedics after taking his own life, and he wasn’t able to have a funeral. Do you recognise that there is a real urgency to address the hurt and harm that’s being caused? PM: Yes. Media: What are you going to do about it? PM: Well, you will have seen all the way through this, every time there’s been a death, every time there’s been a traumatic experience that someone has had—because, ultimately, we’ve had to make decisions to try and protect people’s health—we have never discounted the impact that’s having on people’s lives. Some of the stories I’ve heard today, though, don’t fit with our expectations that we have. No one—no one—should birth alone. Everyone should have been able to have a support person with them through that experience. So there are some stories and testimonies that I’m sure the Director-General will want to be looking at, because there are some expectations that I don’t think have been met, from what we’ve heard today. Media: Are you calling into question those stories from those people— PM: No, no—not at all. Media: —or the actions of the— PM: Just the implementation, because I don’t think anyone would think, even in these extraordinary times, that that would be reasonable. Yes—of course—in the period thereafter, there has been the ongoing risk of having visitors coming and going and what that presented for patients. But when it comes to, for instance, someone having a baby, no one should go through that experience alone. Media: That woman and all those others, though—it feels totally out of control. Where is the compassion? PM: Oh, what I’ve just expressed is the expectation that we have. Some of those experiences shouldn’t be had alone, and it was our expectation that they shouldn’t be happening alone. Media: So will the Government take—just on a case by case basis, actually—take a bit more care and consideration in considering those exemptions and considering whether or not people can have— PM: Again—as I’ve already said—for instance, there already is an expectation that no one should birth alone. What we’re hearing is someone sometimes—the experience of what’s happened in individual DHBs, and at that level, decisions are being made, often, by clinicians. So it’s probably best for me to hand over to Dr Bloomfield on that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. Yes, so I got to hear most of one testimony and all of the last testimony before I answered questions to the committee, and the point I made is that it’s very important to hear these stories and understand the impact on individuals and their whanau. These are things that we will use to inform, not just our approach as we move through and down the alert levels, but also updating our policies in case we have to move up through alert levels, and I guess the point I did want to make is, you know, what we always aspire to—whether it’s a pandemic situation or not—is it should be consistent, as appropriate, and different, as appropriate. And, ultimately, that comes down to clinical decisions and discussions between individuals and their whānau and clinicians. But we will be looking to make sure that where there is every reasonable expectation of consistency, that will be the case. Media: Did you fail those people? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I didn’t personally fail them, and what I— Media: But did the Government fail these people? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: No, I don’t think the Government did, and what’s important, though, is that we have heard those testimonies and that we work with the district health boards to get a good understanding of just what happened in those situations, and use them as a learning experience. And I know that they will be paying careful attention, because they will have been listening as well. PM: One of the other things to keep in mind, of course, is these are, in and of themselves, potentially very traumatic events that are even made more traumatic by the fact that they have happened during a global pandemic when the country has been in lockdown. What our duty of care is is to try and reduce that burden as much as we can, and, as the Director-General has said, there are cases where it doesn’t sound like we’ve done that to the best of our ability. We have to be willing to go back and learn from that. Media: That same select committee heard from the Cancer Society about screening. Screening was off the table during the lockdown. They’re concerned that hundreds could die in the coming months or coming years due to cancer because it wasn’t caught during the lockdown. What’s being done to mitigate that risk? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So, first of all, in terms of screening—yes, no cancer screening was done during the lockdown. But that is now up and going again, and so I’d like to encourage anyone who does get an invitation for screening to take that up, and it’s important that we do deliver screening services as part of our cancer prevention and early detection. The second thing I think Dr Jackson was talking about was the need to catch up rapidly on undertaking assessments and diagnostics on people who may have symptoms and maybe need to be investigated. And that’s one of the things the district health boards are looking at very promptly, working both with us and with the new Cancer Control Agency with Professor Sarfati, who’s the interim CE there. So there’s a very big focus on getting those people in to be assessed and to get any tests and investigations they need as quickly as possible. Media: Can you guarantee, though, that there won’t be loss of life because of this lockdown and the lack of cancer screening? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: What I can say is I have no doubt that those who deliver cancer services are more committed than anyone to making sure that people timely assessment and investigation to ensure that any possible harm that might have accrued because of the lockdown is averted. So I think that—well, the other thing I can say is—and I know—that 80 percent of the cancer surgery that we would have expected to have happened during that lockdown has happened, and that clinicians are working very carefully with the Cancer Control Agency to ensure that people are prioritised to avoid any harm arising. PM: That’s my understanding—that the vast majority of cancer surgery continued, and I believe bowel screening—well, at least bowel screening is by post. So there’s a different set of circumstances for bowel screening. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: That’s right. The actual faecal occult blood test is done through the mail. [Interruption] PM: OK, just coming through—yes. Media: Dr Bloomfield, does it concern you that there’s a shortage of propofol—I hope I’ve pronounced that property. PHARMAC has just come out and said there’s a shortage, and that’s used in all surgeries and it’s the only one that we use in New Zealand. Is that of a concern, given that elective surgeries are going to be up and running again soon? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So, yes, I do know that there’s a challenge with the supply of propofol—it’s a global issue. But I do have a lot a confidence in PHARMAC that they will be using every possible route to ensure that we can maintain supply here, because it’s important for both surgery and for use in ICUs when people are being ventilated. So I know they will be working very closely with the professions to make sure we can avoid any problem with a shortage. Media: Do you have any special powers under the emergency Act to maybe get PHARMAC to bring in a different brand if they need to? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Well, they’ve got all the expertise and they’ll get the clinical advice they need, and if they need to, I have no doubt they will do that, and, in fact, we’ve been working closely with them as part of ensuring our supply chains through alert level 4 and into 3. And, where necessary, we are only too happy to actually organise a flight to go and get pharmaceutical supplies, and that has already happened over the last few weeks. PM: Heta—here in the front. Media: Prime Minister, the Kōhanga Reo National Trust were disappointed that they weren’t asked to present in front of the Epidemic Response Committee. Given that the people that presented, there was a raft mainstream education providers, ECE, principals, universities—should Kohanga Reo National Trust be approached to present? PM: Well, whilst I wasn’t privy to some of the urgings that were made by other members of the committee, I am told by at least the Government members on the committee that there was a general message sent that they would’ve liked greater diversity amongst the representation, be it Māori health professionals—and also representation across the board generally. But, ultimately, we do not hold a majority on that committee, and it is chaired by the Leader of the Opposition. Media: There was zero Māori representation in the education-themed committee yesterday—no kōhanga reo, and no kura kaupapa Māori, either. Should there have been? PM: Oh, I think there needs to be diversity of voice, and that includes, you know, within health, within education. As I have said, though, unfortunately, we didn’t hold a majority on that committee. We did give the opportunity for the Opposition to lead it and they are, and so, ultimately, it is determined by the chair and the Opposition who appears before that committee. Media: The Māori Party said Simon Bridges is willing to let racist politics take precedence over public health. Do you agree? PM: Oh look, you know, I haven’t been intimately involved in the way that the committee has run, but I do know from our members that we have sought that kind of representation. [Interruption] In the front. Media: Prime Minister, are you concerned that the Solicitor-General being issued a summons sets a bad precedent? PM: Well, obviously, I’m more focused on the substance, really, of the issue at hand, and so when it comes to the substance, I just want to note a couple of things, and that is, ultimately, that the legal underpinnings for our lockdown and for the enforcement are all in the public domain because, of course, they include the epidemic notice, the section 70 notice under the Public Health Act, the national state of emergency, and, of course, the Cabinet papers that underpin each. They are all in the public domain. What the Leader of the Opposition is seeking is legal advice, which, of course, he himself strongly defended in the past—the practice of not releasing advice that is provided to the Crown. So I think that’s an important distinction to make. Media: Just on police and their powers, will they need new legislation to clarify their powers under alert level 2? PM: Yes. What we have said is that, actually, greater clarity is required as you move down from what are more generic provisions, as you move down into lower levels—that we believe it would be right and proper for us to create more specificity around those enforcement powers. And so that is something we’ve been working on with Crown Law. Media: So are you confident that you won’t need any retrospective legislation to validate those sort of early days of the lockdown? PM: I’ve been consistently advised that there were no gaps in our enforcement powers throughout our response. What we have acknowledged is that, actually, some of the legislation that we have had to utilise—which include, for instance, the epidemic notices and so on—actually probably could be more fit for purpose going forward, because they tend to be designed for individuals rather than when you’re dealing with the likes of a global pandemic such as this. So we’ve acknowledged that there’s a time and a place, going forward, where we may wish to look at the legal framework and ensure it’s fit for purpose in the future. Media: But no retrospective validation? PM: No. No, our view—the advice that we have been provided is that there’s been no gap in our enforcement powers. Media: Prime Minister, the 24 cases that are being looked at who had exemptions declined to visit dying loved ones—could you give us an update on that? Has anyone been granted one? PM: It’s being dealt by the Ministry of Health, so I’ll hand over to Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Thank you, Prime Minister. So, by the end of yesterday, over half of those had been reviewed. I don’t have the results of what those reviews are yet, but I’m pleased to say that it is continuing apace. I expect them all to be done by today and have the results and the outcome of that—again, affirming that it is being done independently by another group; not the group that originally did the assessments. Media: Were any exemptions made? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I don’t know as yet. Media: Now that the National Cabinet has wrapped up—because you, obviously, weren’t able to talk about it yesterday. We’ve seen the communiqué on Trans-Tasman bubbles, so you can leave that. What else did you learn or what else did you share, or what else can you tell us about what was discussed at the National Cabinet? PM: Again, I’ll apply the same rules that I apply domestically for discussions in Cabinet, so— Media: It’s not a real Cabinet. It’s just a forum for— PM: Yeah, I won’t— Media: So there’s no Cabinet story? PM: Well, I’m not sure it’s for me to determine that on behalf of the Prime Minister and the Premiers. But just to give a general sense, what stands out for me is that we are all grappling with the general issue of getting control of the virus, and then, as you do that, safely resuming economic activity. Everyone, globally, is dealing with that issue, and so, obviously, in New Zealand, we’re charting our own path in such a way that we do not run the risk of yo-yoing back into greater restrictions—because nobody wants that—but, equally, we’re trying to move as quickly as we can safely. So I felt a real sense of solidarity because we’re all in that same boat together. Media: Is there a case to invite Scott Morrison to a New Zealand Cabinet for any particular reason—to do the opposite, to learn anything? PM: I wouldn’t rule that out—I mean, because, ultimately, these are all exercises in sharing information, particularly given we are such closely linked economies and because we have shared aspiration that when it is safe to do so, we would like to continue the exchange of people and, therefore, trade and business as well. So to have that commitment from both sides is helpful, but it also gives a sense of our direction to our business community and to New Zealanders and Australians. The one thing I’m mindful, though— today, I see Australia is grappling with little cases springing up, as we continue to as well. So we are having similar experiences; what neither of us want is to go backwards. Media: Prime Minister, you’ve previously talked about, I guess, your scepticism about the efficacy of a contact-tracing app—issues around uptake and around the accuracy of the tracking. Could we theoretically go it without a contact-tracing app? PM: Yes, but there are different—yes, you could, because it is always an enhancement on top of what the World Health Organization, from memory, characterises as public health boots on the ground—it’s always in addition to—but there are also other things that we can explore. One of the things that we of course already said to the hospitality industry prior to lockdown was “You must ensure that you have ways of contact tracing everyone who comes into your premise.”, and so whether or not you’re engaging technological tools to do that or doing it in a more traditional way, we do have an expectation that that will be occurring. There are also other ways of gathering information that aren’t necessarily apps that you’d want to do with people’s permission, but we need to explore all of those tools to help us with contact tracing. [Interruption] Yeah, I’ll let you come in with a follow-up. Media: Is the Government still planning to release an officially sanctioned Bluetooth app? PM: Yeah, so we’ve always kept our options open around the range of different tools, and we are still working in earnest on each of them. Media: Prime Minister, do you believe you and Scott Morrison are on the same page when it comes to the trans-Tasman travel bubble, or are you keener than he is to have flights resume, or the resumption of travel between the two countries? Because in his opening spiel yesterday, it was a lengthy opening spiel—a length of 20-plus minutes—he didn’t even mention trans-Tasman travel. PM: Oh look, I think we are in exactly the same place, as you would expect when you release a joint press statement. By default, obviously, you’re in the same place on it. Media: But he neglected to mention it in his media conference post - National Cabinet until he was asked about it. PM: That does not in any way undermine the position that we both hold on this issue, which is that neither of us wishes to be responsible for cases popping up on either Prime Minister’s country. No one wants that responsibility on our shoulders, so I think what we’re both driven by is a desire to get our countries in relative positions to be able to do this safely. We are on the same page. We see the economic benefit, but we also see the risk. We’re determined to try and find a resolution. Jenna, yeah. Media: Sorry, just back on the contact-tracing app—does that have to be made available before we go into level 2? Is that on track to happen— PM: No, we’re not making it contingent, but of course we will have obligations that we expect of certain industries. So that will be—that, for instance, is part of our expectations for moving levels. Media: So could those hospitality guidelines be broadened to include retail, for example—would you look at that as a framework for other sectors? PM: Yeah, and, look, I’ve been really impressed by the work that retailers and the hospitality association are doing, because they can see already what needs to happen for people to be able to resume safely, and so they themselves have been doing some of the work in this space. But I’ll be commenting a bit more on that tomorrow. Media: We’ve heard of payday lenders setting debt collectors on people during lockdown. What’s your response to that? PM: You will have seen that we have expedited some of the work that we have been doing to put a bit more rigour around the way that some who operate as payday lenders and as loan sharks have operated. I think it’s probably in keeping with the kind of behaviour we’ve seen from these people in the past, and it shouldn’t be tolerated. Media: Do you think that they should show some form of compassion? PM: Basic humanity is what I think they should show, but we don’t always see that from that sector. Media: Just back on contact-tracing apps, is there any real point in pursuing them when you need quite a high download rate and 20 percent of people don’t have smart phones, and even in Singapore, where people are very cooperative with their Government— PM: Fourteen percent. Media: —they only got 20 percent penetration? PM: Yeah. One of the issues in Singapore that they freely identified was compatibility with iPhones. I note that they do have high Android use, but that still would be a significant issue for the likes of New Zealand and Australia. My understanding is Australia overcame that. They also—it was a significant drain on battery life and it interfered with people’s Bluetooth headphones. Anything that, I think, acts as a barrier to making it as simple as possible to engage in a tool like that is a problem. So I think that’s why you’ve heard me be sceptical, because I don’t wish for us to rely on that being the answer, because it never will be. It will be a helpful supplementary tool. Dr Bloomfield, though, you’d have views on that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yeah, look, I think the more we learn—and I’m looking at European countries as well, and I think the UK made an announcement yesterday and they’re trialling something. Any of these apps has drawbacks—none of them are perfect. The important point for us is we’ve got our core contact-tracing system solid and achieving the sorts of time frames that we were aiming to achieve. I think one of the other things we’re thoughtful about too is we would like to think about—what we have seen through the COVID-19 response from the health system is some quite significant changes in the way that care is delivered to people through virtual means. And what we’re really interested in is thinking, if there is a role for an app, that it’s not just around contact tracing but it may have some potential longer-term benefits for people in terms of access to information—their information—about their health and enabling them to take better care of themselves and their whānau. Media: Are you still looking at the CovidCard—the Bluetooth-only card? PM: Yeah, so you will have seen that there’s been a number of options to get around the fact that people may not have the devices required for apps. So those were all things that we have given quite broad consideration to and haven’t yet settled on. One thing you also don’t hear people talking about too much—but I think is quite a useful device—is QR codes, because, of course, that potentially removes the requirement to have people physically registering at the door when they’re coming into hospitality—for instance, bars, cafes, restaurants. QR codes are a simple technological fix for that. So these are the range of options that we’d be willing to look at in our response into COVID. Media: In a level 2— PM: I’ll just come in the front of you, if you don’t mind. Media: Thank you. So, further to that, Rob Fyfe said recently that a solution could be a device that people carry around— PM: Yep. Media: —and that New Zealand could be world first in our contact tracing capabilities. Is that the CovidCard, or is there another device— PM: I believe that he’s talking about the CovidCard—a card—which has the same kind of functionality as a Bluetooth app. I believe that’s what he’ll be referring to. Media: So how far away would that be—do we have any time frames on it? PM: Again, as I’ve said, you know, we’ve been considering a range of different supplementary options, and there are a number of issues that you have to work through. Of course, it all comes down to human behaviour. The thing that stops a person downloading an app might well be the same things that stop a person from carrying something with them. That’s not to say that we’re not giving really thorough consideration to all of the options. Final decisions on something like that, though, you’d imagine you’d have to take a lot into account. Yeah, Jenna. Media: Looking at the current level 2 guidelines, the one that kind of sticks out like a sore thumb is the gatherings of up to 100 people indoors and 500 people outdoors. That’s a mass change from what we’re seeing at the moment. Will that remain tomorrow? PM: So I’ll be giving more detail tomorrow on the alert level framework, and what you will have seen us do as we’ve gone through the different stages, we do take a fresh look at the system that was created at the beginning of the pandemic, and what we apply is the latest knowledge, information, and evidence to that framework. We as a world, as a global community, have learnt a lot about COVID-19 in a short space of time, and that includes in the last four weeks. So you’ll see when we talk about the framework tomorrow that we will be using the most up-to-date information we can. Media: So should people be expecting to be able to have, say, a wedding of 100 people under level 2? PM: Again, you’ll see the advice that we provide tomorrow, and you’ll see that, as always, we do give guidance in advance to prepare people and then lots of advance notice before we move into the different levels as well. Media: On the Microsoft announcement, are there any large global companies which you know are looking to do similar investment in New Zealand, and also are you looking to invite other companies to set up headquarters or temporary offices here to sort of weather out the COVID crisis? PM: This actually is an issue that I’ve raised with the Minister for Economic Development but also Minister Woods. Within MBIE we do have a team who proactively go out and connect with often high-tech, high-wage emerging businesses to help facilitate entry into the New Zealand market and also help them navigate our regulatory environment. They do that in a really proactive way—in the same way that NZTE supports our exporters—in order to encourage high-quality investment in New Zealand. My view is that now is the time to continue with real extra effort and enthusiasm that work. New Zealand’s brand has always been that we are a sound, high-quality, reliable place to invest. I’d like to think that our response to this health crisis only further underpins or emphasises that approach. Now is the time for us to sell that message internationally. In terms of specific pitches, though, you know, some of that I leave to our Ministers, but I have certainly shared my view that now is the time to tell that story. Media: Prime Minister, you mentioned that we’ve learnt a lot about COVID-19 in a short space of time. Does that mean that we could see some considerable changes to some of the level 2 restrictions tomorrow? PM: No, I think you’ll see that we’re willing to use evidence in our decision making, and that’s important. There are things, of course, that we know about—lag times. Now, we see that you can still get a positive result for COVID many weeks after you’ve had it, and you may not be infectious but you can still test positive. We know the lag time of the virus and the vulnerability that presents, but we also have some of that core guidance—that if you’re with someone indoors for longer than two hours, that’s risky; if you’re in close contact with people, that’s risky. So it’s all about using that evidence to build a framework that gets people back to normal, but a safer normal. Media: Sorry, I know you’ve already made some points about the regional alert levels, but if we remain at level 3 beyond next week—if it is extended—would that be the point that you’d then look at changing alert levels on a region by region basis? PM: Again, some of this I wouldn’t mind just picking up tomorrow, because then I’d be able to talk with you with a little more specificity around the different arrangements at alert level 2. I’ll take the last few questions. Bernard, yeah. Media: On the Microsoft issue, there was your suggestion about trying to get more big companies to come here. Are you confident— PM: Trying to get quality investment to come here. Media: Yeah. Are you confident that Microsoft or Google or Facebook or some of— Amazon—would be proper taxpayers if they came here, and would you get assurances from them that they would pay their taxes properly here? PM: Look, everyone who comes into New Zealand knows the expectations that we have for how people will operate here, but one thing I want to point out is actually the relationship between New Zealand—and, again, I say this, all under the umbrella of certain regulatory processes needing to be complete for this particular investment. But what I want to say broadly is that actually Microsoft is a good example of a relationship that has strengthened in recent times. We’ve worked closely with Microsoft on initiatives like the Christchurch Call. We’ve got good personal relationships with the senior executives, and I think what you’ve seen as a reflection of their investment is that they see not only a strong regulatory framework here in New Zealand but also a strong digital future here in New Zealand as well. Media: But isn’t it also crowding out local firms who are more open-source— PM: No. Media: —and locking the Government into a single software provider? PM: No. What I’ve seen, actually, as a reflection of this kind of investment is the number of potentially smaller ICT companies who could benefit from it. It also adds a bit more comfort when it comes to data sovereignty through onshore storage, which has been an issue that’s being raised in many quarters. Yep, I’ll take the last few questions, and I’ll finish with Tova. Media: Just a couple of quick ones. COVID: the potential for an alert level 2 law—how far away is that, and could it hold up the move to level 2, figuring there’s only a small handful of days— PM: Yeah, obviously, we know this is work that needs to be completed with urgency. But for further questions on that, I’ll have the Attorney-General provide a little more context around the work that’s being done. Media: In all contact tracing, are you looking at any way—like South Korea has done—at a combination of like cellphone-tracking data and retail-spending data in order to sort of aggregate people’s movements and who they may have come into contact with? PM: You can imagine that, of course, all of the expectation we have as a society around people’s privacy means that whatever we do, we’re looking for people having an acceptance of the role that technological solution and handing over their information can play in this response. So we’re working with the Privacy Commissioner on the kinds of initiatives that can actually balance people’s privacy with also the need to respond to this pandemic. Media: So it’s off the cards, such a— PM: Not in—we wouldn’t do it in an automated way, but that’s not to say we aren’t thinking about all the different tools we could use that would satisfy privacy issues and people’s permission being given for being involved in anything that really reaches into their privacy. Media: Prime Minister, people who normally live in New Zealand and have permanent residency or work visas are struggling to get home from South Africa, despite the flights being available. Do officials need to do more to get everyone home who lives in New Zealand, and not just citizens? PM: They’ve been doing an extraordinary amount of work—tens of thousands of New Zealanders being supported in what is the biggest consular exercise that we can remember in MFAT’s history. It is a big exercise, though. I know that there is more work that MFAT’s doing within certain parts of the world, but that is an ongoing piece of work. Bringing New Zealanders home has been tough, but they have done an amazing job. Media: But are we doing that at the expense of perhaps some people who live here but aren’t citizens or residents? PM: We’ve of course been involving—it hasn’t just been citizens who have been coming home. But anything with more specific detail, I would need to ask MFAT to help provide that advice. All right, thank you everyone. Media: On Mother’s Day, can you quickly please— PM: I’m back tomorrow. Last modified: 7 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers : Watch the media conference. Transcript of daily media conference 7 May 2020 Last modified: 7 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. PM : Right, kia ora koutou katoa. We’ll start with an update from Dr Bloomfield, after which I’ll set out further details on how New Zealand will operate under alert level 2 when it comes time to safely move there. But first, Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thank you, Prime Minister. Tēnā koutou katoa. Today, we’re reporting one new confirmed case of COVID-19. This person has tested positive and is a household contact of a previously confirmed case linked to the Matamata cluster. The Waikato DHB is publicly calling for anyone in Matamata who is concerned that they may have been exposed to COVID-19, regardless of whether they were directly involved in the St Patrick’s Day event that led to this cluster, to immediately seek advice if they want to look at getting tested. So today’s case brings the total of confirmed and probable COVID-19 cases to 1,489, and of these 1,339 are confirmed cases. We now have 1,332 people who are reported as having recovered from the COVID-19 infection, which is 89 percent of all cases. Today, there remain two people in hospital, one in Middlemore and one in Auckland City Hospital. Neither are in ICU. We still have the 16 significant clusters—no increase in those—and I’m pleased to say no further deaths to report today. Yesterday, our laboratories processed a record 7,323 tests, bringing the total number of tests undertaken to date to 168,023. It’s very encouraging to see these testing numbers increase again after the weekend, and this is a reminder to anyone who has symptoms to seek advice about getting tested, and the high numbers also reflect the work our district health boards are doing to ensure that there is good surveillance testing happening in their regions. Just a word on aged residential care: I talked last week about some work we were doing with the Aged Care Association and nominated clinicians on what we have learnt about and what we can do to further strengthen prevention and management of COVID-19 in this important setting. So a new questionnaire has been developed in collaboration with the district health boards and the Aged Care Association about the role of testing and other screening processes for new residents going into aged care. This has been released—the questionnaire—just last evening, I think, on our website. It is there to see, and a very good piece of collaborative work, and I think incorporating all the learnings from our experience to date and led by clinicians nominated by all parties. Just an update quickly on our exemptions review: the initial review of 32 of the previous decisions on exemptions has now been completed. You’ll recall alongside this I had asked the team to do a review of the criteria for assessing these exceptional requests, and to incorporate the findings of the judgment from last week into that review. So the review process undertaken to date, against the pre-existing criteria, found that all the decisions had been made, both in terms of process and finding, correctly, and so there was no change. However, it has also found, and as it goes through, that some of these would be different if they were assessed against the updated criteria, which incorporate the findings from last week’s High Court decision. So there has been media coverage already on the outcome of one of those decisions and a person has left managed isolation to go and visit a dying relative. The ministry team is now completing these reviews rapidly at this point and contacting and working with all those affected. They will be completed by the end of today. Finally, a word on masks—another subject of interest today. We’ve just published today an updated review of the evidence on the use of masks in the general setting by the general public, including both the risks and benefits. It’s a very good but very readable review. The key finding of the review, which was commissioned by the ministry’s Chief Science Advisor, Professor Ian Town, is that the science remains inconclusive; there are both risks and benefits, and there is a range of approaches being taken by many different countries. That’s all laid out in that updated review. So we know there is ongoing interest, and what I’ve asked is that that review now be referred to our technical advisory group for consideration to see if we should update our current recommendations for the general public. Thank you, Prime Minister. PM : Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. For six weeks now, our lives have been quite different. We’ve gone from a lockdown into level 3 and the reopening of parts of our economy, as our team of five million has stuck to our strategy of going hard and going early to win the battle against COVID-19. We can be proud of what we have achieved: low numbers of new cases, and two days where we were without any; increases in testing, including actively testing those who might be at risk of COVID-19 as we hunt to find any burning embers of the virus. Amongst the health response, we’ve seen the ingenuity of Kiwis, who have understood what was needed to operate at level 3 safely and have made it work. Even more pleasing is how well these owners and operators have been supported, with Kiwis being mindful of the people and livelihoods that sit behind a meal, a parcel, a takeaway lunch. Those businesses reopened their doors, and we have begun reopening our economy. Now we find ourselves in a unique position again. On Monday, Cabinet will consider the next stage of our response. We will do that with the best evidence and advice we can, with all of the data we have from almost one more full cycle of the virus. We need every number from every single day to get the full set of data, and we need, of course, the view of the Director-General of Health. We will make a balanced decision; one that recognises the impact of restrictions and the huge impact of restrictions on people’s livelihoods but doesn’t risk all of the gains that we have made today. After all, no one wants a second wave—no one. As restrictions have been relaxed in other countries around the world, the virus has had the opportunity to bounce back, and in some places it has. Ultimately, we need to stay in control. So the key for us has always been to understand where we are at in any given time in our battle with COVID and then make sure we are at the right alert level to put us in the best position to continue beating it. Every alert level, therefore, has its own battle, and even when you win one, it doesn’t mean that the war is over. So a quick reminder, again, of the framework we have been using to help us on this journey. As the alert level system makes clear, different levels allow different amounts of contact with one another, depending on how bad the spread of COVID-19 is. At alert level 4, the aim is to eliminate contact with each other, and that is what a full lockdown achieves. At level 3, “restrict”, there is still a high risk the virus can get out of control and bounce back, so the goal remains to restrict contact with one another as much as possible. At level 2, the aim is still to reduce close contact with strangers. It acknowledges that the virus is probably still with us; so we do need to behave differently to prevent it taking off again. It is very unlikely that we have hunted down every single case of COVID-19. If stray cases start new chains of transmission, we might not find them for a month, so we all have to stay on guard. Level 2 has been designed to get as many people back to work as possible and the economy back up and running but in the safest way possible. In a nutshell, the principle behind level 2 is “play it safe”. We will only move there if things are under control. But it won’t mean the fight is over. If we adopt a safer way of operating as part of our new normal, we can keep it in check and remain on our path of elimination. So now for the principles of “playing it safe.” First, we have our constants: public health measures remain unchanged. If you are even slightly sick, stay home. I know this is against New Zealanders stoic intuition, but I cannot reiterate this enough: if you are sick, please stay at home. If you have symptoms, even if it is just a runny nose, a sore throat, get a test. And, now more than ever, wash your hands often and properly all of the time. Wash all high-touch surfaces regularly, like your keys and door handles, and don’t pass other people your phone. The border remains unchanged. We’ll continue to keep our borders closed, except to Kiwis. We will continue to isolate Kiwis who come in from overseas in managed hotels away from others. And our elimination strategy remains in place: test, contact-trace, isolate. This is our COVID business as usual. There are a few other things we want you to keep the same, and that includes your distance. You’ll hear people talk a lot about how far you should stay apart from others. Let me give you the rationale behind that. If you are sick, then you’ll sometimes have symptoms that will make you spread your illness—things like coughing. If that’s the case, the safest place for you is at home. But if someone doesn’t follow those rules, or doesn’t know they are sick, and leaves the house, the safest distance between you and that sick person is 2 metres. So that’s why we use that guideline. Now, as we’ve moved through the alert levels, you will be coming into contact with more people and more places. It’s not always easy to keep that much distance between you. So at alert level 2, playing it safe means 2 metres from strangers, but in your workplace or places where you’re around people you know or who we can contact trace later, we can live with less, because we can find you and we can find them. So let’s then talk about workplaces at level 2. Businesses can restart for staff and for customers. Services can be provided on customers’ premises—for example, in people’s homes. And people who haven’t been into their office spaces can return, but with good hygiene practices in place. But one thing to remember: COVID is still with us. The fewer people we can have contact-trace in a workplace, if we need to, the better. So while you can go back, it is still worth the conversation with your boss whether you have to be there in person. After all, many businesses may well have experienced the productivity gains of staggered start times, less congestion, and working from home. There’s no reason we should lose what we have learnt. Each business can work out its own situation. There is flexibility there. What is non-negotiable, though, are those basic hygiene practices. That brings me to those places of work where working from home was never an option: domestic cleaners, hairdressers, retail stores, cafes, restaurants, hospitality. At level 2, when we get there, these operations can reopen, but they all must play it safe, and that means doing things differently. For retail, that means physical distancing in store for both staff and customers. It means good hygiene practices and regular cleaning of surfaces and those things people touch often. Larger retailers and malls will follow the lead of our supermarkets, with measures like limiting the number of people in store to enable enough space for physical distancing. For hairdressers and beauticians, it means wearing appropriate PPE because of the close proximity you have with your customers throughout the day and because we want to protect you and your client. This is an area where we have given specific advice because it is virtually impossible to do this job without being in very close proximity to your clients and to having a large number of clients in any single day. So this is to mitigate that risk. For hospitality, be it a cafe, a restaurant, or a bar, playing it safe means using all of the evidence and advice we have to make rules that work. This means that only those businesses that can apply the three S’s will be able to operate. They are, firstly, people must be seated. That means you can only have as many people in your venue as you can safely seat, and no one, regardless of venue size, can have more than 100. The reason for this is simple: COVID loves congregations. Crowds of strangers with no physical distancing and no ability to tell who you are standing near is very, very difficult. It is much easier to separate people, keeping them physically distanced, and trace them if we make sure people are seated. This also helps to prevent the spread. Congested bars have already produced a massive cluster in New Zealand and we must avoid another. The second S: people must be separated. So there must be social distance in venue between people and tables. I acknowledge this may mean for some it is not economical to open, but that is up to each venue. Three: each table must have a single server. At every venue there must be table service, not people going up to counters, as this minimises contact and helps us to trace if we need to. So the three S’s again are: seated, separated, and single server. Finally, as you can imagine, contact tracing will also be key here. We are working on nationwide technological fix to make it easier for businesses to record who comes into their premises. This is likely to include QR codes, but, in the meantime, manual or basic digital recording will be used, which was being done by venues before we moved up the alert levels. Of course, it matters what happens outside the hospitality venues too, as we have seen in recent weeks. Operators will have a responsibility to manage customer contact outside their venue. If there are lines, for instance, people must be separated. Those who do not comply with these guidelines will be shut down and lose their ability to operate. As you can see, there are significant risks in hospitality, and so there are significant rules to manage those risks. These are all principles we’ve worked through with the Hospitality Association, including the three S’s. We both believe they can be made to work. That brings me to the issue of gatherings. Our journey in understanding this virus has also led us to reaffirm that at level 2 indoor gatherings are limited to a maximum of 100. I do want to just acknowledge that that is a maximum. Of course, many venues for their fire regulations, will not be able to have many, and many will not be able to physically seat that many. But we have also learnt a lot through this journey, and that means we will also limit outdoor gatherings to 100 people also. Previously, you will recall, it was 500 for outdoors, but I think everyone can see that big events lead to risk, and that risk can mean big clusters. I know this will affect many, but we have to have to keep working on getting things right so that we can get to place where larger events are possible again. In the meantime, we are thinking about the extra support required for sectors that will be on an ongoing basis affected by these limitations. For managed events like weddings, music events, religious services, funerals, these can be held at level 2 when we get there, but with all the same public health guidance and with the 100 person limit. Public venues such as museums and markets can also open again, but, again, the same rules of keeping your distance and good hygiene apply. Success or failure could depend on something as simple as how often you clean the handrails. This brings me to the issue of bubbles. Firstly, you no longer need to stick to your bubble. You can begin seeing family and friends again, but we do want you to hang onto the same principles that we are using generally in hospitality—issues around space and hygiene and contract tracing. If we have large-scale events held in people’s homes, then all of that becomes harder. That is why at alert level 2 we are saying that you can have friends and family over to your home but keep the numbers small so that you can practice all of those measures that were outlined across alert level 2. This is not the time for a large party or function at your home. We will be providing more specific guidance on this in the coming days. Now I want to come to the issue of moving around New Zealand. At the time of creating the alert level framework our cases numbers were limited. We now know a lot about risk. We know, for instance, that so long as you play it safe when you travel, we can minimise the risks. It’s what you do when you get there that is the problem. A trip from Wellington to Napier to see your mum is fine. A trip from Wellington to Napier to go to a big conference with an open bar is not fine. That’s why at level 2 we will be allowing people to move around the country again, but to do it safely. Keep your distance on public transport and at airports. Manage your social distancing. Remember the same practices apply wherever you go in the country. And those are practices that already those involved in large-scale transport are putting in place. I know this change will mean a lot to the likes of our tourism industry, and I know a lot of people are keen to support you. In fact, I got an email just last night from a wonderful Kiwi named Judith, who told me that “When we are on the other side of this, I plan to get a haircut, then to take a trip somewhere in New Zealand.” A lot of Kiwis share this sentiment, but we need to support our tourism industry safely to avoid us going back to square one. That brings me to recreation and sport; it’s quite different at level 2. At level 2, playgrounds, gyms, pools, and public courts are permitted to reopen, subject to meeting the required public health measures. All water activities can resume. Some community sports will be able to return to play more quickly than others while the necessary health requirements are worked through, so we ask that you give your club a chance to get up and running again and to work through some of those issues. We all want to get back to sport, but we want to take enough time to do it safely and to look after those who are involved in it. Professional sport will be able to resume domestically under level 2, with the necessary public health measures in place. Super Rugby and the netball premiership league have already confirmed their intention to resume a domestic competition at alert level 2, which I know will be cause for great excitement for many. The rules around mass gatherings will still apply, so there won’t be any stadium crowds for now, but sport will be played. Again, there is more detail to come on this area, and that will be made publicly available. And, last but not least, education. Early learning services, schools, and tertiary education facilities can open at level 2. I do want to emphasise that with so few cases in New Zealand, schools and early learning services are safe environments for children, young people, and staff. Additional public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of the disease and to support contact tracing. Schools and early learning services will engage with parents about children returning at level 2. Distance learning is available for those unable to attend school, for example, those who are self-isolating because of potential contact with COVID. Tertiary education facilities too will maintain the core capability to deliver comprehensive distance learning to students if needed. If an education facility has a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 in the future, they must close on an individual or group basis for 72 hours to allow contact tracing, and then potentially for a further 14 days, if that is required. We also agreed that when we make the decision to move levels, schools won’t be opening mid-week. Whenever the decision is made, they will then open at the beginning of the following week. The same public health messages continue to apply to schools: keep children at home if they’re even slightly sick, and good hygiene such as hand washing are very important. Where possible, physical distancing is a good precaution. We do, however, know it is near possible in an early learning environment and very challenging in schools. So staying home if sick, good hygiene practices, and regular cleaning become even more important here. And all schools and early learning services will collect information about who’s there so public health can contact people quickly if needed. We know parents have lots of questions, but please give schools and early learning centres time to plan and contact you. And, again, just a reminder: we’re not moving there yet, this is just the framework. I hope that gives you a good sense of the rationale and principles of level 2: the place where we are still limiting contact with strangers, and where we must play it safe. As you can see, it is a large step from where we are now. So my last message today is a very important one: when it comes the time to move, we want to move with confidence. That means the Ministry of Health and experts giving us the best advice on how to do that. If that advice is to move in a phased way, because level 2 taken all at once has too many risks because, for instance, it includes gatherings of people, I would rather take that advice and move out slowly than be in level 3 longer than we need to. Equally, no one wants to make a decision that leads to us yo-yoing between levels. Now, again, no decisions have been made yet. The Director-General has not provided us with advice yet on what decision we should take on Monday. We wait for all of the data before we do that. But if reducing risks means taking several steps into level 2, rather than one big one, that may be what happens. But we all need to wait, and make that call when the time comes. And, finally, a reminder to stick to the plan. I know it’s Mothers’ Day this weekend and the urge to reach out will be strong, but we remain at level 3. And so if your mum is not in your bubble, then reach out over the phone or video, send a wee local present, and make plans to catch up when it’s safe to do so. There will no doubt be additional question beyond the broad overview I’ve given today, and details are available at the COVID website, including examples for different workplaces. We’ve tried to provide as much as we can and we’ve tried to work alongside industry and industry associations to develop guidance. It doesn’t mean, necessarily, we’ll have every answer. We’ve given ourselves time though, so if you’re a business, in particular, and you need a question answered, please do reach out to MBIE for further information. Ultimately, level 2 is our safer normal—not a return to business as usual. Treasury modelling did tell us we’re better off in the longer term to move down through the alerts progressively, so it does mean getting every stage right. It means both the decision to go there but also what we do when we get there. If we think of ourselves as halfway down Everest, I think it’s clear that no one wants to hike back up that peak. The descent is known to be even more dangerous, and so we need to proceed with caution, with the highest degree of confidence, and to look after one another on the way, and I absolutely believe we can do that. We’re now happy to take your questions. Media : Prime Minister, so many people will be letting out a sigh of relief in hearing these guidelines. Are you worried that people will now relax compliance? PM : No, because we have moved through stages before and, again, we are still in the early stages of being at alert level 3 in terms of results. The virus has a lag time, so we need to stay the course, but you’ll hear, from what we’ve said today, we’re eager to move too, but we want to do it safely, we want to do it carefully, and we want to remain vigilant. Media : If you do phase in level 2, what would be the priorities out of these guidelines that you’ve revealed today? PM : I don’t want to pre-empt any decisions, but what I want to indicate today is, of course, moving into level 2 is a large step. We would rather start that journey than to wait back in level 3 longer than we need to, but it may be that we get advice that the higher risk elements of level 2 may need a little more time. I’m not pre-empting that decision, though, because we are still waiting on the advice that we’ll receive from all of the experts, and we’ll be sharing that decision on Monday. Media : If we are to move into level 2 on Monday full bore, why not make that decision immediately? Why wait—I think, was it—48 hours that you said you’d wait until we actually made the shift? PM : Two things: that gives us that full two weeks, and we’ve always given that lead time for people to plan and prepare. It allows people to adjust their working arrangements. It allows them, if they’re a business, to prepare for opening. Even then, that’s quite a short turn-around for many businesses. Media : A phased approach—essentially, is that a level 2.5; and what restrictions would still be kept and what would be relaxed? PM : And again, I don’t want to pre-empt the decision that we are yet to make, but level 2 is a big step. The important thing for us is opening up as much of the economy as we can safely do so without squandering the gains we’ve made. So if the advice we receive from Health is “Take some cautious steps forward.”, then that’s advice we want to consider. We don’t want to rule out the option of phasing if that’s what’s needed to get there. Media : Will you look at measures such as mask wearing, for example, on travel? Will that be part of the consideration in terms of what the public might expect that they have to do along with what you’ve already outlined? PM : I’ll let Dr Bloomfield answer that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There certainly will be some recommendations for specific settings around wearing of masks: for example, the Prime Minister mentioned hairdressers and beauticians and talked about PPE—the primary thing being masks there makes good sense. And we’re looking again at, based on the evidence, whether we’re recommending people—or certainly not requiring but certainly recommending whether people more generally, the general public, wear masks in certain settings. At this stage, we think our advice stands, but we’re asking for our technical advisory group to get to us on that. Media : Would there be any issues of supply if suddenly the public was recommended or urged to use masks? Obviously, that would increase demand significantly. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That’s one of the things we’d want to look at. And, I guess, we know the value of masks in healthcare settings and in other settings and we want to make sure that they are available and being used appropriately in those settings. And then there will be other specific settings, and we want to make sure that people working in those settings who we’re proposing wear masks are also able to access them. Then, if we were going to look at wider wearing, even if that was in certain circumstances, we wouldn’t want to be recommending it if we couldn’t also be sure that people were able to access—and look, it needn’t necessarily be a disposable mask. You’ve seen other countries talk about cloth masks, even homemade ones, or face coverings; although, as you’ll see from the evidence review, the benefit of the cloth mask is lower than a standard surgical mask. PM : Just to add, you will have seen us reference PPE for people working in those fields where it’s impossible to remove close proximity and physical contact. And so we have asked the all-of-Government team just to make sure that we provide a bit of advice on accessing PPE for those who are working as beauticians or working as hairdressers. Media : Prime Minister, you talked about breaking your bubble, so for people at home who intend to break their bubble—say they want to have a dinner party or something like that—do you have a restriction on numbers you can have into your home? PM : Yeah, we will be providing further guidance on that in the days that are ahead. But what I would again urge is that, when we make the decision to move to alert level 2, we are still requiring people to play it safe. That means not having large gatherings, cramming people into your home, and dispensing of all of the advice we’ve had over this period of time. Yes, do catch up with your family, do catch up with your friends, but large gatherings are still a no-no. Media : Does that mean that people can go back to hugs and handshakes, or do they have to keep doing the West Coast wave? PM : Again, that’s actually—I might start with Dr Bloomfield and then respond to your West Coast wave. Media : Or East Coast wave, sorry. PM : I thought there might be something I’d missed on the West Coast. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, it may well be on the West Coast now, if it’s being used more widely. Look, I think the key principle here is—and the Prime Minister’s talked about the 2 metres away from people you don’t know—1 metre generally in other settings is good if they’re people you know. And also keeping mindful of this overarching principle, which is if you have got a cold, don’t go out and, of course, don’t give even your family members a hug, really. Keep your germs to yourself. So hongi, I think, is an issue for iwi to work through. We will, of course, be providing guidance and principles. For my part, I’m looking forward to giving some of my more extended family members and friends a careful hug, but for work colleagues and, perhaps, people I’m meeting for the first time, I’ll be sticking to, probably, an elbow bump. PM : Yeah. I think keeping it limited at this stage is the advice that we would be giving. Media : Just to be very clear, so are people allowed to travel domestically for tourism specifically? PM : Yes. As you will have heard us outline today, it’s not so much the travel, although we want you to do that safely, it’s what you do when you get there that also matters. So, of course, if you’re engaging in activities with your family and you’re maintaining physical distance when you’re out and about, you’re mindful of your personal hygiene, then yes. But if you’re travelling for a large gathering in someone’s home or you intend to meet up with a large group of people, then that’s not a safe purpose for travel. Media : Is there different advice for people over 70 or with health conditions in terms of, for example, travel, recreation, any of those different activities? PM : The advice that we’re giving—and I’ll hand to Dr Ashley to expand on this—there for those who do have higher risks is just, again, for them to think about their own personal safety when they are out and about; so applying all of those precautions really rigorously. So keeping safe distances, personal hygiene—that all really applies, particularly to those groups who do have higher risks. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The only thing I would add, of course, is also for others to look after and continue to keep those people safe, because if they do get infected then they’re more likely to get a poorer outcome. Media : Prime Minister, there are some pretty nervous parents out there. How confident are you that we’re not going to see another Marist College school cluster? PM : We won’t be moving into alert level 2 unless we believe it’s safe to do so. So I absolutely understand all of the anxiety of a parent. And so the lens that we’ve been analysing these decisions and, indeed, creating the framework where we would see a reopening of education facilities is only if it is safe to do so. Media : Have you banned dancing—like, how will you police non-congregation of people at social events? PM : Of course, as you can see, the expectation here is limiting contact with strangers, and there are some circumstances where the whole point is to have contact with strangers. So that is a difficult situation for certain parts of hospitality, where that’s where their business is built around. So the safest way that we could determine that a business could operate was, actually, if they could fulfil certain criteria. So rather than describing which venues could open, we’ve described what they need to do if they want to reopen. They have to be able to seat every patron that’s there, they have to be able to separate all of those patrons from one another, and they have to be able to serve people at those tables. It does mean that certain venues—nightclubs, and so on—unless they adapt in that way, at alert level 2 they would not be able to operate. Media : How will it be policed? Like, have you actually created like a “fun police” that could actually ensure this stuff doesn’t— PM : The alternative, of course, is a hospitality industry that isn’t able to operate at alert level 2, and I don’t think that’s what people would want. So, instead, what we have done is looked at “What is it that we’re trying to achieve?” We’re trying to achieve reducing contact between strangers. It’s very, very difficult for the hospitality environment, so we’ve come up with some principles to try and achieve that and allow those businesses to reopen, but safely. It does mean for some it won’t be workable, but keep in mind the intent is not to be at alert level 2 forever; the goal is to keep moving through. But, while we’re there, we do need to be cautious. Media : Could you just clarify: in the 100 person limit—is that for a single room? Or could, for example, a convention centre have 200 people if there was 100 people spaced out in one area and 100 in another. PM : Gatherings. So those groups of people cannot intermingle with each other. You can imagine what it would be like with a conference venue with multiple groups passing through each other, using similar spaces, similar entry and exit places, similar bathroom facilities, how difficult it would be if you had one person with COVID in that environment, to then contact trace those individuals. So that’s why those limits are put in place. Media : Prime Minister, can you really allow bars and cafes and restaurants to open when many of them do not have contactless payments? So what is the Government doing to ensure they all take contactless payments? PM : They’re not required to take contactless payments at alert level 2. You’ll see what we’re accommodating, even, of course, in hospitality, you do have interaction with your servers; they’re bringing you food, they’re bringing you coffee. So there is that level of contact. That’s why we’re asking for single servers—reducing it down to as few people in that environment as you can—to reduce the chances of having to expose large groups of people to lots of different strangers in one environment. Media : But isn’t having these terminals where many, many patrons will share their hands with that terminal and servers to push their buttons in and slide their cards in—isn’t that dangerous? PM : And that is why the guidelines are very clear for retail, for hospitality: whether it is an EFTPOS terminal, the door handle you go into a space in, or the door handle you use into a bathroom facility—all of what they call “high-contact surfaces”—must be cleaned regularly. An EFTPOS terminal is not the only issue that we need retail and hospitality to be very aware of. That’s the first point. The second point is this demonstrates why that transition needs to be cautious, needs to be well-thought-through, because level 2, if you’re going to open up those parts of the economy, does open up more risk. Media : Why don’t you act more urgently to regulate the payments sector so that the fear that many hospitality and dairy owners have about fees is removed and they can properly use payWave? PM : As I’ve just suggested, Bernard, an EFTPOS terminal is one of many high-contact surfaces. Unless you want us to regulate that no business can have a door handle as well, we wouldn’t solve that problem. It’s all about hygiene practices and we need every facility, whether you’re a school, whether you’re a retail operator, whether or not you’re a restaurant, to be extra mindful of all of the surfaces that people have contact with. Dr Bloomfield might want to talk about that a bit more, though. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I think you’ve covered the key principles there, Prime Minister. So availability of hand gel so people can use them if they are using EFTPOS terminals and the cleaning is just paramount there, and that applies to any setting. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can you please give us an update on the Marist cluster? And, also, is there any evidence that young people are infectious while not showing outward signs? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : What I can update you on is that over 500 people now have been tested so far this week from that Marist community, and thus far just the single positive test that I talked about yesterday. We know that there is increasing evidence about asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic transmission of the virus, and so that’s one of the things that, of course, has been trickier for countries in how to manage and respond to this virus. And that applies in the school setting as in any other setting. So saying, as the Prime Minister said, we are moving towards alert level 2 in exactly the position we wanted to be in. We came out of alert level 4 with low numbers of cases, and increasingly confident about no community transmission or ongoing unidentifiable transmission inside clusters, remembering this is a household contact. And this is the same now. All the cases we’ve seen this week—and we had the two days with no cases, and yesterday and today—are all linked to existing cases or clusters, which is exactly where we want to be. Media : Is there strong enough evidence about infectious versus asymptomatic to be able to go into, for example, a school setting? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The evidence continues to emerge. We’ve got a better understanding now of how the virus transmits. But the key thing here is—whether it’s school, workplace, any other setting, including what would be high risk settings like, arguably, cafes or restaurants, where there are strangers there—we are increasingly close to being in a position to go into alert level 2 because of the low numbers of cases we’ve had through efforts from the lockdown. Media : Prime Minister, the finance Minister this morning said that he expected deficits to blow out for an extended period and also New Zealand’s debt levels to increase over the foreseeable future as well. Could you give us some sort of indication about what those sorts of numbers are going to look like and if that’s appropriate? PM : No, I can’t give you those indications at this stage, but what I would say is that New Zealand isn’t in isolation here. The entire world is going to experience the prolonged economic pain of COVID-19. And I expect you’ll see that in other countries’ debt levels, and also you’ll see it in their economic plans for recovery, as you’ll see here in New Zealand. One of the unique positions, though, that we have that puts us in a better place than other parts of the world is we went hard and we went early. That will, therefore, I think, reap benefits for us in terms of opening the economy back up. Media : But is it worth it to take on that much extra debt and to see our deficits blow out? PM : Again, every decision that’s made in terms of spending for recovery or for rebuild is made with the very distinct goal of ensuring that we are creating jobs, that we’re supporting people through a very challenging economic period in our history. This is a one in 100 year event, and you will see us, though, apply the same rigor to our economic decision making that we always have, to make balanced decisions, to put people first. Media : What will the restrictions on the numbers of people mean in places like ski fields, for example? Will they be able to reopen? PM : In open air, obviously, golf courses, for instance, places where you have a large number of players, it’s obviously a different sets of circumstances. When we’re talking about those mass gatherings, it’s where you’ve got those congregations of individuals that we really need to be really mindful of the contact that people have with one another. Media : Prime Minister, you’ve mentioned in the past that when we move down alert levels you expect checkpoints, iwi-led checkpoints, community checkpoints, to close down. Is your expectation that when we get to level 2 all of those checkpoints will be closed immediately, or will you give some discretion to those local communities? PM : The principle here is that we wouldn’t be making a decision, and, indeed, we haven’t made one yet to move to alert level 2 unless we have the information from the Director-General and the experts to say that it’s safe. So the point of those checkpoints, I know, was to look after communities, and we won’t be introducing regional travel and an opening up of the economy unless we believe that it’s safe and it’s time to do so. Media : I have a question for Dr Bloomfield. You said, Dr Bloomfield, hongi will be an issue for iwi and we will provide guidance on that. Could you explain what you mean? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I think the decision lies with individual iwi about hongi, but we’ll have our Māori team, led by John Whaanga, provide advice and in discussion and consultation with our Māori advisory group. Media : So the reason, Dr Bloomfield, you said specifically that hongi will be an issue for iwi, is that because hongi, you believe, has added risks for communities? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, rather, I think the decision about using hongi, because it’s such an important cultural practice, lies with iwi and it’s not one that—and we can give guidance about what the expectations are and the risks are at alert level 2, but I think iwi are very able, as they have shown to date, to make decisions around when hongi are appropriate or not. Media : Prime Minister, what will level 2 mean for hospitals in terms of visitor numbers and elective surgeries? PM : I’ll leave that to Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So elective surgery is already, under alert level 3, winding up to get back to the highest level we can while keeping the environment safe, and acknowledging that there is a backlog of care that needs to be provided to people. As we move to alert level 2, we will have further guidance around visitor policies in hospitals, and it won’t be back to situation normal. It will be based on the same principles as every other setting about physical distancing, making sure that there is good hygiene, and so on. Media : A question on the PPE review. Three staff members from North Shore Hospital have told us that they’ve been discouraged from wearing masks by management, with two sources saying they’ve been told to remove masks as it may scare the patients, and another saying that they’re worried about asking for a mask because they fell they’ll be bullied for being over-dramatic. Is that appropriate? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, of course, bullying’s not appropriate in any setting. That sounds like an issue specifically for that district health board to follow up. The PPE review that the Minister directed was specifically about the distribution of PPE from DHBs out to the range of community providers, and I can say—because I reviewed all the material that came in—it provided a reassuring picture and some areas that we will continue to work with DHBs on. Media : But stories like this that we keep hearing don’t provide a reassuring picture at all, do they? So there’s a flaw in the distribution flow. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, that’s not a distribution issue you’re talking about; that’s about the interactions between individual clinicians and leaders within the healthcare institution about appropriate use of PPE. What I am also very confident about is that DHBs are using the guidance, the national guidance, to make sure that staff have available the PPE to use in accordance with that guidance. Media : Prime Minister, are you confident in the enforcement of level 2’s rules, given that they’re much more relaxed? PM : Yes, and, as I’ve said, the Attorney-General is working through some final elements to support the enforcement at level 2. Media : Prime Minister, what would trigger a move backwards from level 2? PM : Outbreaks of cases. You’ve seen what it’s taken to get us down to where we are, but if we did have an outbreak, if we did see those cases ramping up, then we would have to be prepared to move again. No one wants that, which is why it’s about being vigilant, making sure that we’re balancing the opening of the economy, we’re not squandering the gains we’ve made. But you will see us make a balanced decision. That’s what we’ve done every time so far. Thanks everyone. Last modified: 8 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The daily COVID-19 media conference started at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Last modified: 8 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The daily media conferences were held at 1pm and 1:30pm. Speaker at the 1pm conference: Speakers at the 1:30pm media conference: You can watch both media conferences here. Transcript of the daily media conference 28 April 2020 Transcript of the Post-Cabinet media conference 28 April 2020  Last modified: 28 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The daily media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference here. Last modified: 11 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. New Zealand has eight new cases of COVID-19, all overseas travel related. There are four new cases in Auckland, one in Christchurch, two in Waikato and one in Invercargill. Read more (health.govt.nz) (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Government has made changes to the wage subsidy scheme to help keep businesses and workers connected during this unprecedented time. These changes apply from 4pm Friday 27 March. The wage subsidy is $585.80 a week for full-time workers (who worked 20 or more hours per week before COVID-19) and $350 a week for part-time workers (fewer than 20 hours). It will continue to be paid out in a lump sum covering the 12 weeks, meaning a $7,029.60 payment per full time worker. Read more about these changes on the Beehive website (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Minister of Transport Phil Twyford has today announced details of the Government’s support package to keep key air freight moving and ensure New Zealanders retain access to essential goods during the four-week level 4 lockdown. At this stage up to $330 million of the aviation support package will be allocated to: Read more at Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Transport Minister Phil Twyford today outlined the first tranche of the $600 million aviation sector relief package announced earlier this week as part of the Government’s $12.1 billion COVID-19 economic response. The initial part of the aviation package aims to secure the operators of New Zealand’s aviation security system, and includes: Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Government is backing the Reserve Bank’s latest action to support the economy by reducing longer-term interest rates, meaning lower costs for businesses and mortgage holders, and a lower currency to help our exporters. The Minister of Finance has signed a memorandum of understanding and a letter of indemnity with the Reserve Bank to enable it to undertake a programme of large scale purchases of New Zealand Government bonds on the secondary market up to a value of $30 billion over the next 12 months, to reduce interest rates and inject money into the economy. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. This year’s flu vaccine campaign will be the biggest ever with 400,000 more vaccines available in 2020, compared with last year. The announcement was made this morning as Health Ministers David Clark and Julie Anne Genter launched a new COVID-19 public health campaign. Read more (beehive.govt.nz) (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Coalition Government has stepped in to protect Air New Zealand with a significant financial deal that protects essential routes and allows the company to keep operating. The Government and Air New Zealand have agreed a debt funding agreement through commercial 24-month loan facilities of up to $900 million*. The agreement also allows for the conversion of the loan to equity at the request of the Crown. Find out more on beehive.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health has released new guidance on protective equipment for people in essential jobs that may require physical or close contact. In all situations, regular hand washing should continue. These recommendations are a guide only and workplace settings should consider their ability to maintain the 2 metre rule. In general, surgical/medical masks prevent the dispersal of droplets by an infected patient and the inhalation of droplets if within 2 metre of a coughing individual. If a customer or employee shows signs of being unwell such as a fever, cough or shortness of breath, they should be politely encouraged to leave as soon as possible and to seek help by calling their GP (doctor) or call Healthline (for free) on 0800 358 5453. More information on the use of facemasks and PPE (external link) PPE guidance for community care providers A4 poster [PDF, 177 KB] Putting on and taking off PPE A4 poster [PDF, 439 KB] PPE requirements for essential-non-health workers A4 poster PPE for nasopharyngeal testing A4 poster [PDF, 155 KB] PPE for staff caring for positive patients in hospital A4 poster [PDF, 170 KB] Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The New Zealand Government has further strengthened travel restrictions, closing our border to almost all travellers from 23:59 on Thursday 19 March 2020 . All affected travellers must have checked in for their flight to New Zealand by this time. Exceptions can be made on a case-by-case basis by Immigration New Zealand for: No other foreign traveller can enter New Zealand. Returning residents and citizens must isolate themselves for 14 days upon arrival. Read the full announcement here. (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The full Cabinet met this afternoon to make a range of significant decisions to further protect the health of people in New Zealand and reduce the threat of transmission of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Read more (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Government Ministers met tonight and have provided further guidance on essential services that can continue to operate after midnight tomorrow. MBIE Deputy Chief Executive Paul Stocks said the purpose of escalating New Zealand’s COVID-19 alert level to 4 was to stop the virus in its tracks and reduce contact between people. “That’s why we need as many businesses as possible to close their premises now if our one shot at beating the virus is to be successful,” Mr Stocks said. “Only the businesses absolutely essential to ensure the necessities of life, like supermarkets and pharmacies, can stay open. If in doubt, the business premises should be closed. “So unfortunately the Warehouse needs to close its shops. Leaving them open to the general public creates too high a risk of further spreading the virus. Mr Stocks says “big box” retailers like Bunnings, Placemakers and Mitre 10 can stay open to trade customers for essential purposes only. “These retailers play an important part in the construction supply chain, but they cannot sell goods to the general public.” Businesses that are a critical part of the supply chain for essential services are also able to continue operating, but must do so in a way that is safe. “For example, if you make chemicals that are needed for our waste water plants, then we need you to keep operating at the minimum level required.” In addition, dairies can continue to operate, but must observe strict physical distancing rules for customers. “Dairies provide basic food items like bread and milk to people close to where they live, especially the elderly who may not be able to get to a supermarket. However, they will need to operate a strict ‘one-in one-out’ policy and they won’t be allowed to sell food prepared on the premises. “If any dairy breaks the rules, we will shut it down. If there is evidence of systemic abuse, we will remove them from the essential services list. “Food delivery services like Uber Eats and Deliver Easy pose a risk to human health. We cannot guarantee every kitchen operates strict food preparation controls or that everyone who works in a kitchen is well. “For clarity, every restaurant, café and bar must close all aspects of their operation, including delivery. “Delivery of food that is not pre-cooked will be allowed under strict health conditions. Many New Zealanders now receive their food via a delivery company and are in effect no different to a supermarket delivery option. “Most people are able to purchase alcohol at supermarkets. On that basis liquor stores are being treated as other non-essential retail outlets and must close. The only exception to this are Licensing Trust Areas where there is nowhere else to purchase alcohol. These stores must operate a ‘one-in one-out’ policy. “We are doing further work on online ordering of non-food products for home delivery to see if this type of retail can be conducted safely. We will update advice on this once further decisions are made. “COVID-19 alert level 4 is not business as usual and means there will be significant restrictions on what New Zealanders are able to purchase. However, these changes are essential to stop the spread of the virus. “We are ready to change the list if necessary. If we discover there are essential services that have not been made available we will react to that as we go.” Further details on essential services: Correction: An earlier version stated, "Evidence overseas suggests the virus has been spread via poor food hygiene practices, so it’s a real risk we have to eliminate". This evidence is unclear. Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health’s Director-General has confirmed a case of COVID-19 in a Dunedin school following a student testing positive for coronavirus. Read more (education.govt.nz) (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updated the media at 3:30pm Tuesday 17 March on the health response to COVID-19. Read more (Health.govt.nz) (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Wednesday 18 March on the health response to COVID-19. Read more (Health.govt.nz) (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Thursday 19 March on the health response to COVID-19. Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Friday 20 March on the health response to COVID-19. Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 11:00am Saturday 21 March on the health response to COVID-19. Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media on the national COVID-19 response at 1pm today. Today we have 14 new cases of COVID-19 confirmed by laboratory test in in New Zealand. This brings the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in New Zealand to a total of 66 - note, this differs from the number listed in this stand up. The correct total is 66 confirmed cases. Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media on the national COVID-19 response at 1pm. The speakers were: Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Government, retail banks and the Reserve Bank are today announcing a major financial support package for home owners and businesses affected by the economic impacts of COVID-19. The package will include a 6 month principal and interest payment holiday for mortgage holders and SME customers whose incomes have been affected by the economic disruption from COVID-19. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Some people with underlying medical conditions and people over 70 are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. When we move to Alert Level 2, there will be more freedom to move around and reconnect with friends and family. People at risk of COVID-19 will need to take some extra precautions when out and about to keep themselves safe. Alert Level 2 information for people at risk of COVID-19 Last modified: 12 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. We’ve united against Covid-19 and by continuing to work together we can earn the opportunity to move to Alert Level 2. When we move to Alert Level 2 we can leave our bubbles and reconnect with friends and family. We’ll move to Alert Level 2 when we’re confident there is no community transmission and that the disease is contained. When we do, we’ll have measures in place to track and stop any new transmission and stamp out any outbreaks. Cabinet is reviewing whether we are ready to move to Alert Level 2 on Monday 11 May. Until then, we remain at Alert Level 3. New Alert Level 2 information Overview of the Alert Level System Last modified: 7 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. People over 70 and other higher-risk groups have the same rights as everyone else to go to work, to exercise and to access essential services like supermarkets and banks. While the basic rules under Alert Level 3 are the same for everybody, people over 70 and people with specific health conditions need to be especially careful. If you are at risk, talk to your employer and agree on work and leave arrangements. The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme has been expanded to all businesses, organisations, and self-employed people to support this. Read the media release on the Beehive website (external link) Alert Level 3 guidance for at-risk people Information about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme Last modified: 26 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. From today, you can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. Employers, employees, self-employed and people who have lost their job due to COVID-19 can all use this tool. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to find out your personal circumstances: The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you could access, and where you can apply or find more information. We want to ensure that everyone who is eligible receives financial support. Use COVID-19 financial support tool Last modified: 1 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. There is now a free helpline service for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 (North Island), or 0800 50 50 96 (South Island). More advice on doing business at Alert Level 3  Last modified: 28 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme will provide assistance of up to $100,000 to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. Loans will be interest-free if they are paid back within a year. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of five years. Repayments are not required for the first two years. Applications will open on 12 May and be managed by Inland Revenue. More information on the announcement (external link) Last modified: 1 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The COVID-19 Income Relief Payment will help soften the shock and minimise disruption from sudden unemployment, giving people time to look for other work or retrain. The payment will be available for 12 weeks from 8 June for anyone who has lost their job due to the impact of COVID-19 since March 1. It will pay $490 a week to those who lost full-time work and $250 for part-time. The payment will not be taxed. Read the media release on the Beehive website (external link) More information and how to apply (external link) Last modified: 25 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Keep New Zealand Working online recruitment tool connects job seekers directly to the employer making it quicker and easier for people to find work. The tool, now live, also provides online training courses. Use the new Keep New Zealand Working tool (external link) Other announcements to help people back into work include: Media release from Minister Sepuloni (external link) Last modified: 28 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The New Zealand Government has temporarily closed its High Commission in Bridgetown, Barbados and its Embassy in Yangon, Myanmar due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Foreign Minister Winston Peters says. “Due to the increasing scarcity of air links in and out of Bridgetown and Yangon, and the pressure COVID-19 is placing on local health systems, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has decided to temporarily withdraw New Zealand staff and their families from these locations for health and safety reasons,” said Mr Peters. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Until then, we're still at Alert Level 3, and all Alert Level 3 guidance and restrictions apply. Cabinet has decided to phase in some aspects of Alert Level 2 in order to manage the risk of stepping down Alert Levels. COVID-19 continues to be spread by close personal contact. Gatherings and social events where people mix and mingle present the highest risk of spreading COVID-19. Some of the biggest COVID-19 clusters have come from these types of events. Under the first phase of Alert Level 2 gatherings can have up to 10 people. This applies to wedding ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga, religious ceremonies, gatherings at home, and each group within a restaurant or other venue. This is a temporary measure that will be reviewed in 2 weeks' time. It does not apply to large public venues, or playing professional sports, which are controlled environments. Until 21 May, venues like cafes, restaurants, bars and clubs are restricted to opening for dining, and with groups of 10 seated separately, and served by a single server. The information on Alert Level 2 restrictions is being updated to reflect today's decision. Updated information on gatherings, events and public venues Overview of Alert Level 2 information Last modified: 11 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. People who download the app can record the places they visit by scanning QR codes displayed at the entrances to business premises, other organisations and public buildings. People can also register their contact information through the app to make sure the National Close Contact Service can get in touch if they need to. Any business or public facing organisation with a New Zealand Business Number can generate a QR code poster for each of their premises through the Business Connect online service. NZ COVID Tracer is available from the Google Play Store and the Apple App Store. How to download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) How to register and get QR code posters (external link) Information about contact tracing in New Zealand Last modified: 20 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has made a statement to the nation about the impact of COVID-19 on New Zealand. The government has announced a four-level Covid-19 alert system. COVID-19 alert levels [PDF, 1.5 MB] Alternative ways of working are encouraged. We all have to go about life very differently, including our work life. Employers should start alternative ways of working if possible – for example remote working, shift-based working, physical distancing within the workplace, staggered meal breaks and flexible leave arrangements. We need to be practical and sensible about this, but we do need to change our practices. If you are at high-risk, you are advised to stay at home regardless. This includes if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. Why? This is an important measure to slow down the spread of the disease. Slowing down the spread of the disease is vital to protect people’s health and to ensure our health system can cope and look after New Zealanders that become sick. Employers should allow employees to work from home if they can, and start other alternative ways of working: Information for businesses about Government financial support for wage subsidies and leave related to COVID-19 is available on the Work and Income website: here (external link) Specific information for exporters and importers, and about travel, employment, health and safety is available on the business.govt.nz website: here (external link) . Guidance for businesses about mass gatherings: here (external link) . We are asking everyone to limit your movement around the country. This means cutting non-essential domestic travel. This will help us track and contain any spread of COVID-19. Physical distancing on public transport is critical to slowing the spread – it’s about keeping a safe distance from others. On public transport, try to stay at least 2 metres away from other passengers, and leave the seat next to you empty if you can. It is important to cough or sneeze into your elbow. Wash and dry your hands before and after your journey. Working from home and alternative ways of working will reduce the amount of people on public transport. Keep as much space between you and others. This means staying at least 2 metres away from others, where possible. Where possible, sit in a window seat in a row by yourself. This is about slowing down the spread of the disease. This is vital to protecting people’s health and ensuring our health system can cope and look after New Zealanders that become sick. We are asking that people not undertake any non-essential travel around New Zealand. If you need to fly, maintain social distancing and wash your hands before and after your flight. Yes, but remember to wash your hands for 20 seconds before and after you have been on public transport and cough or sneeze into your elbow. If there is space on your bus or train, try to stay at least 2 metres away from other passengers, and leave the seat next to you empty if you can. Who is at risk? Older people often have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to this virus. Underlying medical conditions can make you more vulnerable to this virus. In particular, people with respiratory conditions, such as COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease), heart conditions, high blood pressure, kidney problems and diabetes. As treatments for cancer and blood conditions effect people’s immune systems, this makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Health experts do not yet know if pregnant women are impacted by COVID-19 in the same way as other people. However, pregnant women experience changes in their bodies that may increase their risk from some infections. Aged care facilities are susceptible to rapid transmission of viruses like this. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. Migrant and refugee communities are more likely to have underlying health conditions and language barriers to healthcare, which may make them more vulnerable to the effects of this virus. Read the full announcement here. (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 4pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference here. Transcript of the Prime Minister's media conference 4 May 2020 Last modified: 4 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Kia ora koutou katoa. We’re in day seven of Alert Level 3. While we can take heart in recording no new cases today, the result reflects the situation that ultimately reflects the end of lockdown in Alert Level 4; not the effect of greater activity at level 3. So, despite this result, my message remains the same, as I note does the message of Dr Ashley Bloomfield: stay the course. We cannot afford to squander the good work to date when our end goal is so close and within reach. Next Monday, we will make the decision on whether or not we will move to Alert Level 2. That day represents the end of a two-week life-cycle, as it were—a period of transmission of the virus. We need every day between now and next Monday to know for sure that we succeeded in locking in the gains of level 4, recovered effectively in our waiting room of level 3, and are in the position to move down again and give New Zealanders back greater freedoms. In making our decision, we will be assessing if there have been low to no cases for several days preceding. It will mean knowing where every new case over the past two weeks has come from. It will mean ongoing evidence and confidence of no widespread community transmission. So we need to not get ahead of ourselves, stick to our bubble, and to finish the job that we’ve started. Related to this, the latest Google tracking data for the last weekend of our level 4 lockdown came out over the weekend. Overall, it shows we did exceptionally well and that, for the duration of lockdown, we maintained very consistent levels of low amounts of movement. Trips to parks and places of recreation did experience an uptick in the last week, and that is something we need to keep an eye on at level 3—just in terms of, when we are out and about, maintaining physical distancing. However, we did better than many other countries we compare ourselves to, and the ongoing commitment to physical distancing and staying at home has no doubt been the biggest contributor to our rapid drop in cases at level 4. Your efforts, New Zealand, have put us at the front of the pack, and everyone should feel very proud of that. Cabinet today discussed what Alert Level 2 would look like in the event that we move there and when we’re ready to move there. I’ll share those details with you on Thursday, once the guidance has been fully written up and we can clearly communicate that to the public and to businesses. This will provide clarity and certainty and give people time to prepare. Please note, though, as with our previous process, no decision has been made on moving out of Alert Level 3 at this stage. As we’ve done previously, you will receive clear guidance and clear signalling before any such move. In the meantime, the Government is well advanced in our plans to get New Zealand moving and grow in the wake of COVID-19. Central to those plans is the Budget in 10 days’ time. Our hard and early health response to fight COVID-19 has opened up economic opportunities. Now, as we get the economy moving again, we look to both domestic and international opportunities to make the most of the head start New Zealand has with its recovery. But I need to warn you: the Budget will continue the Government’s careful and balanced approach to running the books. With decreased revenue and the Government taking on extra debt, we are being very careful to ensure that every dollar spent helps create jobs and sets us on a path to our country rebuilding better. The finance Minister will have more to say on this in his pre-Budget speech this Thursday. One key aspect of our plan to get New Zealand moving is the work on the trans-Tasman bubble. Today, I can confirm that I’ve accepted Prime Minister Morrison’s invitation to participate via video link in the Australian National Cabinet meeting scheduled for tomorrow. The meeting will discuss a range of matters in relation to the COVID response on both sides of the Tasman, including the creation of a trans-Tasman travel bubble. I will update media on the meeting tomorrow—in fact, just after the meeting—but it is fair to say such a meeting is without precedent and highlights both what’s happened with the cooperation at a state level in Australia and then also the mutual importance of our two countries and economies to each other. Both our countries’ strong record on fighting the virus has placed us in the enviable position of being able to plan the next stage in our economic rebuild and to include trans-Tasman travel and engagement in our strategy. On to the segment loosely called “Kiwi ingenuity”, I know that the biggest agricultural event in the Southern Hemisphere, our national Fieldays, is still hoping to go ahead later this year. And this is an incredibly welcome plan that they maintain, considering the economic shot in the arm it gives our rural services sector: more than half a billion dollars in sales last year, and the flow-on that has for our regional communities, $183 million for the Waikato alone. But, like many events across the country, they’re planning to host these again only when it is safe to do so, and so that work continues. But, in the meantime, that mid-June gap in the calendar will be filled with Fieldays online—a virtual event I know the Fieldays Society has been working on for some time, and one that can bring hundreds of exhibitors together, helping connect New Zealand and international companies at a time when our borders are closed. The world wants our quality food and fibre and, perhaps now more than ever, our high quality ideas as well. OK, everyone, I’m happy to take your questions. Media: Prime Minister, with the trans-Tasman bubble, what’s the likely timing on that? You’ve always said it was quite long term. Can you give us some idea of whether it’s weeks or months away? PM: I wouldn’t say that it would be in the very, very near short term. But, look, that’s something I’m happy to update you on once I’ve had that chance to speak directly with premiers and PM Morrison, but it’s fair to say, from the conversations we’ve had to date, we have a very similar perspective of the kind of time line that both countries will want to run to. In our minds, the health of our people is incredibly important. In New Zealand, we don’t want to give away the gains we’ve made, and nor does Australia want to see any risks either, but we also see a lot of opportunity. Media: Isn’t it fair to say that there are more advantages for us than there are for them? PM: It’s fair to say there are significant advantages for New Zealand in terms of a trans-Tasman bubble—not only, of course, domestic tourism, but equally we have a flow of people travelling between both countries for business purposes, trade, and so on. So it is to our advantage. But, equally, I will say that PM Morrison has equally articulated huge advantage for New Zealand—from Australia from our travel opening up to them as well. Media: Prime Minister, what does “not the very, very near short term” mean? PM: Don’t expect this to happen in a couple of weeks’ time. As you can imagine, we need to make sure that we’re locking in the gains that all New Zealanders have helped us achieve and make sure that we have health precautions in place to make sure we do this safely and well. Media: The beaming into the Cabinet meeting tomorrow—has that ever been done before? How unprecedented is that? PM: No, I don’t believe that has been done before. We have had occasion where, I believe, Australian Prime Ministers have attended New Zealand’s Cabinet with Ministers, but, as far as I understand, we haven’t had something quite like this. In part, that’s because of the unprecedented gathering together that’s been happening within Australia as well. Media: Have you had any specific advice drawn up on this trans-Tasman bubble? Is there a draft Cabinet paper that you’ve looked at? PM: At this stage, we are working through a number of decisions around the border, relating to both the ongoing quarantine and the way that will continue to work—you will have already heard me talk about the need to resolve issues around the ongoing funding of the quarantine mechanism. We’ll need to, of course, then assess the ongoing movement of New Zealanders, and then, within that, we’re also looking at the trans-Tasman bubble. This is not an issue Cabinet has formally considered to date, but it’s really at a point at the moment where Ministers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and myself are discussing it with our counterparts. Media: Just to confirm, the idea of it, it wouldn’t just be that they could travel here; it would actually mean they could travel here and not have 14 days’ quarantine? Because it wouldn’t make much sense if they still had to wait 14 days, would it? PM: Yeah, so it is about really considering ourselves within a bubble where we feel secure that the relative response on both sides of the Tasman gives the assurance that that won’t be required. So you can see why it is going to take us a bit of time to make sure we can do that safely. Media: Is there any hope for the winter ski season that— PM: Again, I’ll give you further updates tomorrow. At this point, I do want to just moderate expectations. But the fact that we’re even in a position as countries to have this conversation is a huge advantage to both of us. Media: [Inaudible] other Pacific nations in the trans-Tasman bubble? PM: Yeah, at the moment, we are focused on Australia, but it is fair to say that there would be, obviously, particularly advantage for our Pacific Island neighbours, but that’s a conversation we’d need to have directly with them. There is huge risk if COVID finds its way currently into the Pacific Island nations that have been untouched by COVID. So I would want us to act cautiously and in unison with the leaders of those countries. Media: How concerned are you that the actions of a minority have potentially derailed our chances if going to level 2? PM: Yeah, we are a team of five million and that means no one wants to see people let the side down. I would still note that this is not the majority, but there are a small number of people who are forgetting that any gains you’re seeing at the moment are actually from the lockdown period. We need to stay here a while longer, feel assured that we actually have this under control, and then move. People are jeopardising that at the moment by acting in the way some people did over the weekend. Media: Can you give a bit more certainty to businesses like retail and hospitality and hairdressers—we’ve spoken to one today—about whether they’ll be able to open under level 2? PM: Yeah, and so, of course, you’ll see in the Alert Level framework, then you do see that further opening up. That’s the next step. What we’ll be doing is giving further detail on that on Thursday, but, of course, top of our minds is that there are a part of the retail sector, in particular, who aren’t operating as usual—or, in the case of hairdressers, at all. We want to make sure that, when we move there, we do so safely and that, hopefully, we can stay there. Media: Prime Minister, are you expecting to be briefed on Australia’s contact-tracing app during the National Cabinet meeting tomorrow, and what’s the likelihood of New Zealand just adopting Australia’s COVIDSafe app? PM: They, of course, based their app on the TraceTogether app of Singapore, which already our officials have engaged directly with Singapore on as well. I understand Australia managed to weed out some of the specific technical issues, and so that’s why it makes sense for our officials to keep talking to one another as well. I expect contact tracing will be a topic of conversation because it’s also an opportunity for us not just to talk about transTasman travel but also our experience with COVID and the work we’re doing to manage it and the role that technology will play in that. Media: Just on the contact-tracing app, do you still remain sceptical about what it’s going to deliver, because the uptake, of course, has to be so high? PM: Yeah, and look, you know, that does not rule out us continuing to pursue technological solutions, and just over the weekend I was talking to Dr Clark again about the different options that exist in terms of technological solutions to help prompt people’s memories about their movements when we need to do so. And so we continue to do work in this space, but we’re not relying on it to deliver everything to us, because there simply is no silver bullet here. Media: On another vaguely trans-Tasman matter, the case of Behrouz Boochani, National’s immigration spokesman, Stuart Smith, said this morning on RNZ, “deeply suspect there was interference further up the ladder or influence because of Boochani’s political connections” and then referenced “political friends in New Zealand in the Green Party and the Labour Party”. So what is your response on the attack of the integrity of the immigration system and your party? PM: I think that’s offensive. I think the claims that are being made here are an insult to New Zealand’s immigration system and also to the integrity of parliamentarians. I won’t comment on the specifics of the case in question, because, of course, politicians have no role to play in it. It’s a very important distinction we have to make, and also, under the law, we’re not permitted to even speak of someone in this particular set of circumstances potential immigration status. So I’m not going to act outside of the law, but I will call out a statement which I think questions the integrity of our immigration system, which is very robust in New Zealand, and indeed, the integrity of parliamentarians. It’s wrong. Media: Is the Government considering any additional oversight measures for big financial decisions after it’s suspended the regulatory impact assessment process for COVID-19 - related decisions? PM: Of course, we have had in place the COVID-19, the epidemic select committee, which of course puts us in the camp of very few parliaments that I think have even taken that step to create oversight and accountability, and I think that’s been important, keeping in mind, of course, even with omnibus legislation we are having those referred to that select committee as well to have parliamentary oversight. Media: But, for some of the legislation, for example—what was rushed through last week—it doesn’t go to select committee; it also doesn’t have a regulatory impact assessment. There’s no modelling done on it. Is there is a case to be made, I suppose, for some oversight of some kind, however quick? PM: Well, of course, Parliament does have a chance to debate that legislation, and that was shared, albeit on tight time frames because of the need to expeditiously support small businesses, and I think there was a good understanding in Parliament of why we needed to do that. There’s also, of course, still the opportunity—as much as we’re able—to model the fiscal impacts of these decisions as much as we are able, but, of course, there is a high level of uncertainty around take-up rates, default rates, on policies regardless of how much time would have applied to debating this piece of legislation. Media: Is it acceptable that, on that small-business scheme, all we got was one press release, no supporting documentation, no financial projections, and we found out that the legislation was passed—even though it was always going to be passed, it was passed mistakenly? Is one press release enough information on something that could cost taxpayers billions of dollars? PM: Of course, the detail of this scheme is in the public domain because people need to be able to apply for it—so the detail around the terms and conditions are being made publicly available. We, of course, proactively release Cabinet papers that underpin those decisions. And, as to the matter around the legislation, there were enabling powers in the bill that primarily related to tax provisions. There were enabling provisions within that that enabled the loan scheme. You will already know our views on the way that that went through a parliamentary process. An error was made—we’ve been very open about what happened there. It is unusual. It would not usually occur were it not for the fact that Inland Revenue—unusually, relative to other departments—have an ability to draft their own legislation because of the technicalities of tax drafting. That meant that PCO, unfortunately, did table the wrong bill, and that had the enabling provisions within it. So, no, that was not acceptable, but I think that’s well understood by everyone. Media: Prime Minister, do you have an update on the amount of breaches under level 3? PM: So I have a cumulative update, and I believe I have a breakdown as at—though this is still as at 6 p.m. Sunday, and it is for a 24-hour period. So that was 593 breaches of the Civil Defence Emergency Management or Health Act; 79 were in the past—in the previous—oh, forgive me; that’s under Alert Level 3—79 were in the previous 24 hours, 154 prosecutions under Alert Level 3, and 400 warnings, 39 youth referrals. Happy to give them broken down to you—just to be assured that those are specific to Alert Level 3. Media: And what was your first reaction today when that zero figure hit your desk? PM: First I heard the zero, and then I heard the one “confirmed” and the fact that it was transferred from a “probable”. I’m a perfectionist; I want to see those numbers after we’ve been in Alert Level 3 long enough for it to be a reflection of Alert Level 3. And so, at the moment, what we’re seeing is all of the good work New Zealand has put into the lockdown. This is the waiting room. This is where we check if we’re recovering well and that we’ve got it right. We need a few more days to check we have. Media: Can I just ask: is it possible to have a trans-Tasman bubble at level 2? PM: Well, of course, some of those decisions come down to the finalisation of just how we interpret travel and so on. I’ll be giving greater clarity on that on Thursday. And, of course, it also depends a lot on what our case load is looking like and what Australia’s case load is looking like. So I wouldn’t rule that out, but, again, it’s actually going to be very much dependent on how relative to each other we’re looking and what we’re putting in at the border to give ourselves reassurance. Media: Can you navigate, in terms of—you’ve talked about us going into sort of regional lockdowns on occasion, and Australia, obviously, has different things going on in different states. So, if we ended up in a situation with a trans-Tasman bubble, would there need to be allowances for, potentially, shutting some states, some parts of the country off? Is that a manageable thing? PM: Well, actually, you’ll see that that is how they have managed some COVID management within Australia, and, you know, travel between states has been a part of their response. So, look, I see, in part, that that will have to be part of our wider conversation: is it that we treat Australia in a blanket way, or is it that we take it state by state? And that will be one of the conversations that I’m sure we’ll have. Media: Can I just ask, as well, about the Oliver Christiansen case? I’m not sure if you’re familiar with it— PM: Yes, I am. Media: —overturned by the High Court. PM: Yeah. Media: Does this legal decision change the approach that the Ministry of Health has actually been taking to these cases? PM: I do think that we need to make sure that we learn from rulings and judgments such as this. And, of course, reading the judgment, there seems to be concern that it was an automated approach taken to requests on compassionate grounds. Information that I’ve received from the Ministry of Health, though, sets out that there were 283 requests for an exemption to the conditions of isolation having been received by 30 April; that 24 exemptions were sought in cases where a relative was dying or close to dying, of which 18 were granted. So that does suggest that there has been due consideration. That is advice I’ve received from the Ministry of Health, but I’m sure that they’ll be reflecting on this judgment. Media: But, given the High Court has overturned this one, does that call into question at all, I guess, the legal basis under which these decisions are being made? PM: I think, reading the judgment, it suggests that actually it was the sense of whether or not the individual circumstances were taken into account rather than an automated process having been applied. Now, really, my expectation is that the Ministry of Health will look at that judgment and then assess the way that they’ll been applying the policy in the future. Media: Prime Minister, what’s your view on public-private partnerships like the Transmission Gully one and whether they should be used for all the big projects that are planned in the years ahead, given what’s happened with the Gully? PM: Well, look, we, of course, have seen a role for public-private partnerships in transport projects, but, again, we take each on case by case. You’ll see that we haven’t applied that same logic on some other projects, particularly within our Corrections system. So for us it really does depend on the form of infrastructure, the long-term arrangements, and governance arrangements. I’d also note, of course, that we’re working through with Transmission Gully scaling back up their operation post level 4, and that’s something that we’re having to work through with the contractors at the moment. Media: [Inaudible] allow it and dump the mess on the Government? PM: Of course, we would certainly hope that would not be the case, but I’ll leave the Ministry of Transport to continue to work through some of the issues on the ground. Media: Prime Minister, last week when we asked you about universities and paying the full amount for accommodation, you said to act with compassion. We’ve had just one example of a student where they’re paying the full amount for their room and also contributing to where they’re staying at home with their mum; so they’re having to— PM: Double up. Media: —pay twice. Are you looking to do anything? Or can you compel universities to act? PM: The Ministry of Education has intervened here, and rightly so, and they’re seeking to try and mediate a solution. One of the tricky issues is that universities often will have different arrangements for the delivery of their halls of residence. Some, for instance, are privately contracted. Some have access, for instance, to the wage subsidy, and we would have a very clear expectation in those cases of how they should be behaving. But there is a role for the Government to play to try and sort this issue out, because it will seem patently unfair to many people. Media: Are you comfortable that nurses at Waitakere Hospital say their concerns were not listened to by management, they felt ignored and bullied, and as a result patients on a virus-free ward have been put at risk? PM: I did see those reports, and it is never acceptable for anyone who is a public servant to feel bullied anywhere, and I especially would include at this time: if there are concerns, people need to feel they can freely raise them. I have seen the protocols that have been applied and questions that were raised over PPE, which they had access to but there were questions over whether it was the right PPE. The DHB have undertaken to look at that, and I’ll certainly be asking the Director-General the outcome of that. Media: Because something clearly went wrong, didn’t it, if 57 front-line health workers have had to be stood down at this very critical time? PM: So, as I understand, advice and the view of the DHB and their technical advisory team was that nurses could not move between wards if they were working on a shift with COVID patients, but that they could work on different wards on different shifts, but never at the same time. That was the view of the DHB, and that is was is being applied here. I believe the Director-General is working with the DHB to work through what has happened in this case and make sure that we are following the best advice possible. Media: Prime Minister, on tourism, there’s been a bit of a suggestion from some, including Cameron Bagrie, that school holidays could be massively shifted to kind of even out the peaks and troughs for the tourism industry—so, instead of the entire country having two weeks to go down to Queenstown, it’s staggered over several months. Has the Government considered anything like that at this point? And could you see that working? PM: Yeah, I mean, one of the things to consider is that that is a reasonable exercise for the Ministry of Education, but I don’t want to be too quick to give a response, given that it’s actually something for the Minister of Education, really, to respond to directly and to talk through all of the issues that that may come with. Media: Prime Minister, some public health experts have said that they don’t believe the Ministry of Health is listening to Māori health experts and, responding to that, associate health Minister Peeni Henare said, yes: “We’ve had this conversation with both John Whaanga … Dr Bloomfield and my colleagues, including the Prime Minister, that this needs to change [and] it needs to change urgently”. What is the Government changing, if anything, to include those Māori health experts more in the decision making? PM: Yeah, well, one thing I would just add—and I don’t think this has been in the conversation enough, and I know Minister Henare will agree with this—that, actually, we are, as you’ll hear from my answers, really leaning on the DHBs to be delivering on the ground. They’re the ones setting up the testing protocols within their rural and isolated communities. They’re the ones that need to identify whether they have those connections into marae and with our more vulnerable Māori population. And, helpfully, they are DHBs now that have more Māori representation than they have ever had. Māori have a seat at the decision-making table at a local level for the way our COVID response is run and managed, and I really want to make sure those voices are being heard, not just in the Ministry of Health. Media: Are there enough Māori voices and Māori people at the table, though? Minister Henare indicated that we’re not even close to having enough Māori at that decision-making table across the board? PM: Well, when it comes to the expert advice, listening to epidemiologists, I do rely on the Ministry of Health to bring together that expertise. And they know our expectation that that will include a wide variety of voices. They know we have an expectation, for instance, that, within our testing, we have reached out into those Māori communities, and they know our expectation that we use, for instance, our Whānau Ora navigators and all of the resource we have on the ground. We will keep driving for that though. We will have a chance to review whether or not, in the future, we’ve done everything we could have done to work with Māori to the best of our ability. Media: Prime Minister, would New Zealand add its name to the calls for Taiwan to join the WHO fully? And would we consider welcoming it to our trans-Tasman bubble if, indeed, we are successful in creating one? PM: Look, we haven’t given any consideration beyond working on the trans-Tasman bubble. We have to make sure that, whatever we do, we do it well, that we get it right, that we maintain the achievements that we’ve had to date. When it comes to wider matters relating to the WHO, I absolutely maintain that the most important thing is for us as a global community to reflect in its totality what happened, what happened domestically, what happened internationally, the WHO response, and our response collectively. There will be things to learn. This is a one-in-100-year event; it would be crazy to suggest we wouldn’t look back at those key learnings. When it comes to membership issues, though, that’s just something I wouldn’t want to comment on here and now. Media: Have you sent a present to Boris Johnson and his new baby son? PM: Not yet, but I will note that, actually, we did get from Theresa May a lovely No. 10 onesie for Neve when she arrived; so we’ll be making sure that we reciprocate. We have had a small exchange, though, over the arrival of his baby boy, in which Nurse Jenny prompted another mention by the Prime Minister. So, obviously, she remains top of his mind. Media: Prime Minister, can the tourism industry start preparing under level 2 to have domestic tourism? PM: Look, I know that that is incredibly important to domestic tourism. I know that that’s something that they’re hoping to see. I’ll be announcing on Thursday what that Alert Level framework looks like. You’ll remember that, of course, we designed the framework, put that out for publication at the beginning of our COVID response. It’s been our practice to then go back, look at our current situation, what we’ve learnt since that time, and make any adjustments based on the public health response. So that we’ll put out on Thursday, but it is fair to say I have heard not only the tourism industry but also those who have been separated regionally from family and friends. So we will be weighing all of those issues up. Media: Just a question about job losses, because we know there are going to be some. Obviously, we’re trying to prevent them, but, for the people that do lose their jobs, what services, how are you gearing up to support these people with mental health support services or like arm-around-the-shoulder type Government stuff? PM: Yep, and providing employment services, very active labour markets, will be a key part of our response. That is something you will have seen from the last Budget—we put an extra, from memory, 270 MSD staff into Work and Income because we felt we had lost that active approach to supporting people into employment. We’ve already put in place employment centre services which put employers and employees directly in contact with one another, and there are examples of where, for instance, the Ministry for Primary Industries have been working with MSD to place, for instance, people in the tourism sector into the horticultural sector. We need more of that, and that will be part of our plans going forward. Media: Is two weeks, one incubation period of COVID-19—is that long enough to really figure out whether there’s community transmission that may have been restarted by something like the parties on the weekend? PM: Yeah, a good question, and it, essentially, does give us a minimum amount of time. It does give us data that should demonstrate what’s happening with transmission when we’ve opened up and created more contact with people. So, not only does that need to sit alongside our proactive testing—you will have heard us talk about the results of that— it also then gives us a sense more generally of people’s interaction and the impact of that. Essentially, epidemiologists, obviously, suggest it’s a minimum, and many have argued for more. Media: Prime Minister, can I just ask a supp’ on— PM: Jo—very, very last one. Media: —on Pita’s question, actually. In regards to Māori experts, isn’t it a fair point to make that they want to be at the table and not just at a DHB level? Because we know that this is being treated with a more nationalised approach, and both yourself and Dr Ashley Bloomfield have talked again about the fact that Māori are the most vulnerable to this. So why not have a Māori expert there with you? PM: I guess what I would dispute is that that voice hasn’t been present. Thank you. Last modified: 5 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Government is supporting New Zealanders to stay in their rental properties with a six month freeze on residential rent increases and increased protection from having their tenancies terminated, says the Housing Minister Dr Megan Woods. This includes: Tenancy termination measures apply for 3 months, and this may be extended if necessary. Read more on beehive.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The New Zealand Government is now advising New Zealanders to avoid non-essential travel overseas due to the outbreak of COVID-19, associated health risks and travel restrictions. There may be a higher risk of contracting COVID-19 overseas. You may come in contact with more people than usual, including during long-haul flights and in crowded airports. Health care systems in some countries may come under strain and may not be as well-equipped as New Zealand’s or have the capacity to support foreigners. Read more (SafeTravel.govt.nz) (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. A State of National Emergency has been declared across the country as the Government pulls out all the stops to curtail the spread of COVID-19. Read more at Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Watch the Prime Minister's update on rnz.co.nz (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Many tertiary programmes are being delivered online in response to COVID-19. This new $20 million fund will help eligible tertiary students continue their study via online distance learning. Students should continue to contact their tertiary providers to discuss the support they need. Read the media release on the Beehive website (external link) Last modified: 3 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Associate Health and Whānau Ora Minister Peeni Henare has today announced the Government’s plan to support Māori communities and businesses in the face of COVID-19. “The welfare of our whanau is at the heart of our response to COVID-19 and we will reprioritising $10 million from the Māori Development vote to support this community outreach,” Māori Development Minister Hon Nanaia Mahuta said. The steps taken by Te Puni Kokiri include: Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. A new package of tax reforms will be pushed through Parliament today to assist small businesses. Revenue Minister Stuart Nash says the COVID-19 Response (Taxation and other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Bill gives businesses more than $3 billion in tax refunds as they deal with the economic impact of the virus. Tax reform announcement on the Beehive website (external link) Last modified: 30 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. From 12 noon Friday 29 May, gatherings can be held with up to 100 people. The new limit applies to gatherings at your home, events outside of home and public venues – including church services, weddings and, funerals and tangihanga. When holding a gathering, play it safe — maintain hygiene standards and meet existing record-keeping requirements for contact tracing. Community sports will also be able to operate easier, and sporting codes will be working on further guidance with Sport NZ. Cabinet will again review the settings of Alert Level 2 on 8 June and have agreed that no later than 22 June, 4 weeks from today, they will consider a move to Alert Level 1. Last modified: 25 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. New Zealand has moved up to COVID-19 Alert Level 3 – Restrict, for the next 48 hours before moving into Level 4 – Eliminate, as New Zealand escalates its response to stop the virus in its tracks, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced today. Level 3, from Tuesday, 24 March: Read more at Beehive.govt.nz (external link) You can watch the full announcement on our Facebook page (external link) . Read more about what the current Level means for you Find out about the COVID-19 Alert Levels COVID-19 alert levels table [PDF, 1.5 MB]  Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is speaking this afternoon after putting the country on alert yesterday for a lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19. Watch the livestream (external link) Transcript of the Prime Minister's media update 24 March 2020 Last modified: 6 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Good afternoon, everyone. First, I want to start by sharing some positive news. One of the questions I’ve been asked most frequently as we’ve been announcing new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand has been “How many have recovered?” Now, for some, COVID-19 will be an illness they experience for a time, but we do have an official protocol around declaring individuals to have fully recovered, and we will start reporting on that. So I can now tell you that of the New Zealanders who have been diagnosed with COVID-19, 12 have now fully recovered. I expect, obviously, that number to continue to increase. As you know, the majority of people who contract COVID-19 do, obviously, recover, and it is essential to the success of our response that as many people as possible are able to recover at home, if they are able, in order to make sure we leave our hospitals for those experiencing the worst effects. For those interested, the latest number of individuals who are currently requiring hospital care, I understand, is six, but that none of those require the treatment provided through ICU or through our high-dependency units. Now, let me run through a few updates on the Government’s preparations as we move to the unprecedented position of being in alert level 4 and as we seek to stop the spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The first statement I’d make is that the underlying principle for alert level 4 is to reduce down contact between people to the bare minimum—essential services contact only. That means the simplest thing New Zealanders can do to stop the spread of this virus is to stay at home. That’s how we will save lives. Isolation and physical distancing from other people is key to our response at this level. Now, of course, some New Zealanders will still be needed to operate our essential services—those who provide the necessities of life, such as our front-line health workers and police being obvious examples. And to these people every one of us owes a debt of gratitude, and I can tell you that we can repay that debt of gratitude now by staying at home. Every interaction we have with someone else increases the risk of the spread of the virus, and you can see that, for instance, in the spread of some of our cases. You’ll see a cluster of cases have come from one conference, and that gives you a little bit of an insight into why we are trying to share that message so strongly: reduce contact, reduce risk, reduce the spread. If you are not an essential worker but you try to go to work or you carry on as usual, you are literally putting at risk those who have to be there, like our hospital workers. Now, I know there continue to be questions, and they are understandable. Countries are facing them the world over as we move into this never-before-seen status in New Zealand of, essentially, shutting down normal life. But we are making good progress, and we do have time to work through some of the questions that will remain. But I’ll start with a few common ones first. People have asked if they can leave their house to go for a walk. Yes, but, again, we ask people to stay two metres away from anyone you pass. Do not congregate. It comes down, again, to those very simple principles. If you are completely isolated, if you live alone but you have one person you have contact with—it needs to be just that: a person you stay faithful to and they stay faithful to you in turn. If you have multiple contacts with others, that is where the risk increases, and we cannot afford that. It ruins the entire purpose of alert level 4. You can drive locally to go to your supermarket to get food, but, again, we ask that you maintain your physical distance—again, two metres—from others who may be undertaking essential errands or getting a bit of fresh air as well. Other than that, we do ask people to stay at home. This is life that will be different. It will not be normal, it will not feel normal, but that is what we have to do to beat the virus. I know there have also been many questions on essential services, and, again, we are in self-isolation to limit the chances the virus has to spread. The more businesses that stay open the more chances it has to spread. Our whole strategy at level 4 is to eliminate that. I have seen talk around what constitutes essential services, and the COVID committee is working through some of those key questions, and there’ll be further updates again on that tomorrow. Also, we will be ready to be responsive. If, once we’re at alert level 4, we discover that there are essential services that have not been made available, we will be ready to respond and react to that as we go. And I want to assure people of that, but our starting point has to be that we have as many closures as possible to maintain alert level 4 but to provide for the essentials of life. We have never shut down our country before; so I will ask people to work with us as we go through this unprecedented step. MBIE is leading this work and talking to businesses closely around some of the implications for them. But, again, first port of call is the COVID-19 website. I do want to reiterate the basic principles we’re working to though: we must make sure we’ve got those services that enable us to scale up our response to COVID-19—so people who manufacture PPE or who are providing important products for our hospital services. We must ensure the necessities of life for New Zealanders; they have to be able to access pharmaceutical products, food, and basic banking services. And we must maintain public health and security. If you’re not doing those things, we are asking you to close. As we’ve already been briefed by the Speaker, Parliament will sit tomorrow. We will debate the epidemic notice and seek to pass a state of emergency, both of which provides us the powers for Government to move the country to level 4. The epidemic notice was gazetted today and ensures that temporary visas are automatically extended to late September. Travellers with a temporary work, student, visitor, interim, and limited visa expiring before 1 April 2020 who are unable to leave New Zealand will be able to stay legally. Travellers with a temporary visa due to expire between 1 April and 9 July will have their visas extended to late September, and confirmation of these extensions will be emailed to these visa holders. Detailed information is available on the Immigration New Zealand website. We’ll also be making it available on the COVID-19 website. Anyone in New Zealand who’s concerned about their visa, although they should be covered by these measures, should get in touch with Immigration New Zealand. And, finally, before I hand over to the finance Minister, I would reiterate what I said yesterday: this event is unprecedented in New Zealand’s history. Never before have we sought to shut down our country in the space of 48 hours. And I want to thank those who have worked so diligently to help support that transition for all New Zealanders. We will, though, take a common sense approach. We’ll make sure that people can get home if they’re at a ferry terminal, or get a flight if the only way they can get home from Dunedin to Auckland is via air travel. We will work calmly and sensibly through all of those issues as we go, but I simply wasn’t willing to wait until we could answer every single question on some of these logistical challenges before we moved to level 4. Every day we waited would have been more time that COVID-19 could spread in our community. So we will work through this as we transition. That is the best way that we can assure the New Zealand public that we are protecting their public health with urgency, and that’s exactly what we’re doing. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I am pleased to announce today that New Zealand’s retail banks have agreed to provide a mortgage repayment holiday scheme for people whose incomes have been affected by COVID-19. I know that this is an incredibly stressful and uncertain time for New Zealanders, and this Government is focused on trying to soften the financial impact on those worst affected. I’ve been facilitating discussions between New Zealand’s main banks, the Treasury, and the Reserve Bank on a business financing guarantee scheme for small to medium sized businesses and help for affected home mortgage holders. I want to deal with the mortgage holiday aspect of the agreement first. Retail banks have agreed to offer a six-month mortgage repayment holiday to homeowners whose incomes have been affected by COVID-19. This is a similar scheme to that which has been offered in Australia. The specific details of how this will be delivered by each bank are being finalised, and banks will make this public in the coming days. I know that people will be anxious to know the details about how this will affect them. We thought, given that and given the very high level of interest from the wider public and the media, that it was important we announced this agreement today, but the exact criteria will be defined by banks in the coming days. I ask people not to bombard banks with applications or queries until the banks themselves have released those details, and it will be within the next one or two days. The Reserve Bank has agreed to help banks with the appropriate capital rules. In addition, it has decided to reduce banks’ core funding ratios from 75 percent to 50 percent, further helping banks make credit available. The second part of the agreement that I’m announcing today is a $6.25 billion business financing guarantee scheme where the Government underwrites bank loans to small and medium sized businesses. The scheme leverages the Crown’s financial strength, allowing banks to lend to ease the financial stress on solvent firms affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. This scheme will include a limit of $500,000 per loan and will apply to firms with a turnover of between $250,000 and $80 million per annum. We have committed to monitoring the scheme, and we are prepared to evolve this criteria over time if necessary. Loans will be for a maximum of three years and will be provided by banks at their transparent and competitive rates. The lending decisions will be made by banks, not the Government, as the banks have the existing relationships with their customers and can get the money out the door faster. In order to ensure that the benefits of this scheme reach the businesses we need it to, the Government will carry 80 percent of the credit risk, and the remainder will be carried by banks. Just before we go on to questions, two particular pleas—well, one plea and one piece of information, sorry. Firstly, a plea to businesses to continue to pay their bills to one another. It is very important that businesses who are in a position to do so continue to pay other businesses, particularly larger businesses paying smaller businesses. This ensures money continues to flow around the economy and ensures that businesses can remain solvent. And a piece of information about the wage subsidy scheme: as of this morning, there have been 117,273 applications, with 41,505 being approved, and $687 million paid out—and, obviously, these numbers move every single moment. Prime Minister: Right, we’re happy to take questions. Media: Have you made any decisions around what you’re going to do with New Zealanders who are returning from overseas, in terms of requisitioning hotels or how you might quarantine— Prime Minister: As you can imagine, this continues to be a risk to New Zealand. We have to allow New Zealanders to return home. This is their home, this is their country of residence and citizenship, so we have to allow that to happen, but we have to also manage that risk. I’ve asked our team to expedite the work on managing that risk in a way that will be seen as much harsher than currently, because that is what is required. At the moment, of course, you’ll see that our cases continue to be from overseas travel, and so that’s where we’re focusing a lot of energy and resource. Media: Could that be like a quarantine—so people arrive, you bus them off somewhere to a hotel or something and quarantine them— Prime Minister: These are options we’re working through. Of course, we have to base those on the scale of ongoing return of New Zealanders. So we’re working hard to try and anticipate the numbers that we will be dealing with and then to build a solution around that. It is not a small task. It’s only now at a point that it would be manageable, potentially, to do something at scale. Previously, it certainly would not have been, given the large number of New Zealanders who both travel and who were returning. Media: You’re also telling them to stay overseas now as well, aren’t you? That’s the new notice from the Government. Prime Minister: Well, one of the issues is simply that, for many, it will just not be possible to return. Those links back to New Zealand are reducing. The ability to transit through countries to get here, in some cases, has dried up entirely. So, yes, we’re working to deal with those who are returning, in the safest way possible for all New Zealanders, but there will be some who won’t make it back. Media: They pose the greatest risk to us, don’t they, those New Zealanders returning from overseas? That is the greatest risk? Prime Minister: Yes, they do, and we will treat them as such. Media: Can you give us an example of what countries can expect to get those mercy flights and [Inaudible] Can you give those people watching— Prime Minister: If we have no ability to transit through a country on the way back to New Zealand, then it becomes very difficult to bring people home, and, of course, some of those traditional transit routes through Asia have ended. And so we have, of course, still maintained and supported Air New Zealand to guarantee certain routes, but, of course, that requires them being able to transit through countries. So it is becoming harder, if not impossible, in some areas, but there were windows of opportunity that we have hope that New Zealanders would’ve used. Media: You alluded to it in your opening comments, but people trying to get—particularly from the North to the South Island, still coming home. Can you give a little bit more detail and some guidance for people who are trying to ring Air New Zealand but don’t know where else to go, for example? Prime Minister: Yeah, look, the one assurance I just want to give: we know that there are people, for instance, who may be in the North or the South, they may have their vehicle with them and they are trying to get home. I just want to give a commitment: we are working through those issues. We don’t intend to just suddenly, whilst there’s a queue at ferry terminals, cut off that transport link. We will clear people to get home, but we will not provide an ongoing service simply for people to tour between the North and South Islands. Media: Do planes, ferries, and that sort of— Prime Minister: Similar situation. Yes, similar situation. Our intention—yes, we gave 48 hours to really start closing things down in terms of that unnecessary travel, but we accept we’ve got to get people back to their place of residence. So we’ll work through that. We’ll work through that backlog, and so I do just ask for people’s patience and to be calm. I do know it’s been stressful for those particularly at ferry terminals, but we will work through that. Media: How will that work when you’re talking about the Auckland to Dunedin flight—will that same rule apply? Will we see a few more of those flights now on Thursday and Friday? Prime Minister: Yeah, look, we’ve been working with Air New Zealand, and we can get a good sense of what is actually just that necessary flood of demand that’s coming through. So we’ll work with them to try and support people getting back to where they need to be. They may be students trying to return home. We’ll work through that, and then we’ll be able to see, from that demand, where then it’s ebbed away and we’ve got people home who need to be home. Media: How many mercy flights are you looking at, and could they be taking off as soon as next week? Prime Minister: Again, as I say, Air New Zealand has been our link to try and bring New Zealanders home, but we are being very open and honest. Regardless of that ability via flights, actually, those transit routes have stopped, and so that is making it more difficult. Media: Is it, basically, off the table now? Has it become impossible with Singapore shutting down—that, basically, mercy flights from the Government aren’t an option anymore for people? Prime Minister: Very, very, very difficult. It’s one thing, of course, to have Air New Zealand available to make flights; it is another if they have no ability to land in order to make that transit route an option. Going forward, there will be people who we simply just won’t, even through our best efforts, be able to bring home. Media: So you should not be relying on the Government at the moment to bring them home from overseas? Prime Minister: It’s simply not an issue of the Government; it’s simply the fact that there are countries that have done what we’ve done and they’ve said that they are closing their borders, but some have closed off transit routes as well, and so that has made it difficult. There was a window, and what I hope is that New Zealanders used that window, heard the advice of MFAT, because now that window is closing or has closed. Just to give you a sense of New Zealanders abroad, SafeTravel, of course, registers some, not all. My recollection of the figures I’ve looked at suggests that many will be New Zealanders who actually are based overseas, but there may well be others who were perhaps part of tour groups or others. But from what I’ve seen, there are a number who are based overseas and living overseas. Media: You said before that returning New Zealanders did pose a threat of sorts and we will treat them as such. What do you mean by that? Are you looking at quarantining them away from their homes and families? Prime Minister: That’s us just making sure that now we have a number that may be more manageable than we’ve had in the past, whether or not we can do things that are more explicit around quarantine and transportation for those groups. Now, I do want to give the caveat that we’ve got to get an assessment of the number we are dealing with and our ability to do that successfully. The last thing I want is to create a situation like we saw with the Diamond Princess, where we weren’t able to do that safely and stop wider spread. So those are issues we are working through now. Media: On the business finance scheme, how did you get to the 80:20 percent split between Government and banks? Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, that was part of the discussions that we’ve been having with the banks, and the really important thing for me is we are in extraordinary times here, and we need to make sure that this lending is getting to the people who need it. We felt, on the balance of the discussions, that a higher level of Crown guarantee would encourage the banks to lend to businesses that are solvent but ones that have, obviously, encountered significant difficulty. So that split was one that we felt comfortable with to ensure that, actually, the lending would happen. Media: Do you have any projections as to how many businesses would’ve fallen over if the Government didn’t intervene in this instance? Hon Grant Robertson: I don’t have a particular projection of that, no. We just wanted to make sure that the facility was available, along with the wage subsidy scheme and the support we’ve been giving around sick leave. In addition to all of that, too, Jason, we are continuing to work one on one with very large businesses to see what might be possible there as well. Media: So what impact do you expect both of the announcements that you made today to have? Hon Grant Robertson: As I’ve said from the very beginning, our goal is to cushion the blow. We’re not promising to save every job, and we’re not promising to save every business, but we do believe that these are significant moves that will help a range of businesses. I’ve got to acknowledge, too, we’re talking here about an $80 million cap here on the scheme that we’ve put in place. That won’t include a number of very large businesses—we know that they are in direct contact with banks—but we do believe it will support a number of mid-range businesses to be able to continue. Media: Is it your expectation that employers top up the wage of an employee if that $585 doesn’t quite cut the mustard? Hon Grant Robertson: Well, that’s, generally speaking, how it is being used, yes, because for a lot of businesses, this is about them then being able to look and say, “OK, I can now spread some of the concerns that I’ve got here with that $535.” They have to sign a declaration still that they’re keeping people employed; so that’s part of what they’re doing, yeah. Media: Has any consideration been given to people who either don’t have cooking facilities or aren’t in a position to cook and what they might do during this period—for example, a big restaurant chain like McDonald’s having a drive-through facility, whether that might be made available for people in that position? Prime Minister: I think what people have to remember here is that that is not just about whether or not you’re having a contactless experience in your pick-up, but the fact that everyone in that restaurant is therefore having contact with one another. So we’ve got to reduce down as many opportunities as possible for people to have unnecessary contact. Food preparation is a particular area of risk. We’ve got to make sure that we’re also not creating situations where someone who may be infected is then passing it on through food preparation. So again I come back to the simple principles of essential services: making sure people have access to food—if they don’t have a supermarket in their town, making sure that there is food provision through a small local superette. We will make sure that there’s that level of flexibility, but this will not be life as normal; it will be different, because that’s what it’s going to take. Media: On the food in schools programme, Iona Holsted talked briefly today about seeing whether you could continue to roll that out, because for some kids that is still a lifeline. Do you expect you will be able to roll that out, and how will you go about doing it? Prime Minister: Yeah, and that’s one of the things that Education is working through. We are very mindful of people in vulnerable situations—isolated older people, for instance, making sure Meals on Wheels is available, making sure that they are getting food delivery services that have existed for them prior that are able to continue that service to them and available to them. And we’re looking in a similar way to some of those other food options for really vulnerable communities. But again, people cannot expect it to be life as normal, because it won’t be for a period of time, and that’s so we can keep this period as short as possible. If we’re successful, the shorter this period of self-isolation for all of us will be. Media: The self-isolation regime is heavily geared towards households. There are a lot of families that don’t live together. So what about a woman and her long-term girlfriend that don’t live together? What about a dad that doesn’t live with their kids—can they touch each other? Prime Minister: The way that I’d describe it—you’ve heard me describe it—whatever your bubble is for the month is the bubble that you must maintain. That has to be it: a small group of individuals who is part of your bubble—that is the bubble you must maintain. As soon as you start opening up contact with different individuals, if that person did the same with their different individuals, that’s when the risk grows. So I’m asking people to just apply common sense and common principles. The same small group has to be your bubble for a month. If that means that you’re a couple that’s split up, you’re each other’s bubble and shared care with your children—that’s it; that’s your bubble. So we’re just asking people: apply common sense. Keep your distance from anyone outside of your bubble, and that’s how we’ll get through this. We will get through everyone’s questions. Media: Has any consideration been given to extending or pushing back the Budget? Hon Grant Robertson: We’re working on that at the moment. We’re sticking with 14 May for now, but, obviously, we’ll continue to keep that under review. The Budget’s going to be a very different document than the one we had been originally planning. So we will keep it under review, but for now we’re leaving that date in place. Media: Prime Minister, have you received any modelling that predicts when the number of cases is likely to peak, based on, I guess, everyone in society adhering to the four-week lockdown? Prime Minister: Of course, as I’ve said very clearly, our numbers will continue to grow for a time, because there is a lag in the transmission and the manifestation of COVID-19 and symptoms, and so the full effect of what we are implementing will not be seen for some time. I wouldn’t expect us to see necessarily a slowdown any sooner than 10 to 12 days. It will continue to grow. So people should not be alarmed if they see that. They should not believe that means we’re not being successful. The lag means that we will keep moving before, I hope, we start to see the effects—if we follow the rules of alert level 4. Media: You spoke about Meals on Wheels. Some of those homecare services have reported difficulties with securing PPE. So their workers are going to the elderly, disabled, sick without any protective equipment. Is that something you’ve heard anything about at all? Prime Minister: No, I haven’t. Media: And what can the Government do or what will it do to support those— Prime Minister: Yep. Look, and that’s something that I’ll take away immediately. PPE is something that we have supply of. In fact, just today we’ve been discussing making sure we get provision of that through to our banking services, and in fact today I just watched a video of surgical masks rolling off a production line here in New Zealand. We, helpfully, produce PPE in New Zealand. So that is an essential service. We’ll keep rolling out those products, and I’ll follow up on that today. Media: Should people be limiting their contact now? There are people in cafes this morning close to each other. Do the underlying principles apply— Prime Minister: What was the name of the cafe? Media: In Wellington. Prime Minister: I’ll grab a name afterwards. The Medical Officer of Health should be making a visit. Level 3: no bars, no restaurants. We should be in shutdown now for those services. Media: Do you want people to stay home now? Prime Minister: Yes. Obviously it takes time for us to get into a position where everything is settled into alert level 4, but I want people to apply that as if it’s already arrived. Yes, there will be a need to get people—people will want to get ready for that, but contact should be limited from now. Media: How many mortgage holders do you expect will take up the mortgage holiday offering? Hon Grant Robertson: Just start at the beginning of that again, sorry. Media: How many mortgage holders do you expect will take up this holiday? Hon Grant Robertson: Oh, look, it’s open to all of those who have been affected by COVID-19. Obviously, the banks themselves will be working with their mortgage customers in that regard, but clearly there has been a very significant impact on all businesses, all parts of the economy, and all workers, and so therefore I would expect this will be something that a very large number of mortgage customers would take up. Media: Do you have a ballpark figure for that and also for the value of mortgage repayments that will be stopped for a short time? Hon Grant Robertson: I don’t with me now, but I’m sure we can look into that. Media: I just wonder about—I received an OfficeMax Stationery Supplies email this morning, which said that e-commerce suppliers of stationery were being regarded as essential services. Do you think that people working in an e-commerce supply warehouse should be covered? Prime Minister: I consider that an essential service is something required to ensure that people can maintain their own well health and wellbeing—that they can get food and the necessities of life, that we can maintain our response to COVID-19, and we can maintain public health and safety. So, within that, those are the principles that we are working to. So there will be a number of examples that will get thrown at me that will not, in my mind, fit within those circumstances. We have at the moment MBIE working through some finer details to give exact guidance to individual businesses, including those who consider themselves contactless and who work through order systems—how we’ll apply these rules. But don’t, for instance, expect to be able to go to your local Warehouse. Media: That six-month holiday so that people don’t lose their homes—what about renters who are really, really worried about not being able to pay the rent? Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, look, that’s one of the reasons why the wage subsidy scheme has been developed—why we’re trying to make sure that people who have time off for sick leave and so on are supported as well. It’s why we’ve said that there will be freezes on rents, but we obviously understand that income remains a really important part of this and we continue to work on how we can adapt the schemes. As I said yesterday, we’re conscious that we need to evolve what we’re doing. This is not the end. There is still more that we’re working on. Media: [Inaudible] sitting around that $500 mark, if you’re getting $585 before tax, then it’s not going to cover— Hon Grant Robertson As we were just discussing, in the answer to the earlier question, that scheme is, by and large, being used to keep people up at 80 percent of their salary, which generally speaking— Media: Or more. Hon Grant Robertson —is above that level—or more; that’s right—which is, generally speaking, above that level at this time, but I do understand the point that you’re making: that, for people for whom at some point that becomes their only source of income, then that does become very stressful and difficult. Bear in mind, for low-income New Zealanders, many of them are already in receipt of the accommodation supplement and the accommodation benefit to support them, but we are continuing to look at how we evolve our income support. Media: Have you thought about holidays on Government debt—so the likes of student loans or people getting holidays from paying into their KiwiSaver over the time being, to free up more of that— Prime Minister: Collection of debt to the Government is not an essential service. Media: Can you give any guidance to students who can only work up to 20 hours a week or people who are working in essential care, like rest homes, providing essential services, and their employers would prefer them to work more hours but they would be in breach of their visa— Prime Minister: And this is specifically for homecare or just general— Media: Yeah, so the example of an international student working in a rest home. Prime Minister: Look, I’ll, take that case away and follow that up with our Minister of Immigration. These are, obviously, extraordinary times. You already will have seen that we’ve had some who would fall into the category, for instance, under the changes made under the last Government to be low wage workers who would have to leave New Zealand rather than being able to access renewal, and we’ve already dealt with that because it affected our aged care workforce. So we are trying to as flexible as we can be right now. That’s not an example I’ve had before, but I’m happy to take it away. Media: Sports and recreation—you’ve talked a little bit about physical exercise, going for a walk, but New Zealand First yesterday put out some press releases talking [Inaudible] about hunting and other solo outdoor activities. So can you explain—do you have a sense of what—I mean, could you go on a golf course that’s public and it doesn’t have staff? Prime Minister: So again I’ll come back to some really basic principles again. Your same bubble for that month, the people you are spending time with—those are going to be the people you can spend time with for your walks—you know, if you want to go for a run. That is your bubble. You’ve got to stick with those individuals. And so the same goes for recreational activities: you’ve got to just stick with those same people; you can’t cycle through and spend time with other people outside of your bubble. Hon Grant Robertson: And two metres apart. Prime Minister: And then, when it comes to facilities, any time you make contact in a public space is a risk. COVID can exist on any surface for up to 72 hours. That’s why playgrounds are out. That’s a space where, if we have multiple children going through and using play equipment, that becomes a risk. And, basically, you restart the clock. The moment someone touches a surface and gets COVID, that’s a whole family that might be two weeks into their self-isolation who now is, essentially, restarting the clock on us trying to freeze transmission. So I just ask people to keep in mind: public contact in public spaces, whether it’s a railing or even when you’re in your supermarket, keep in mind that’s a risk. Constantly wash your hands, but that’s why we’re saying stay at home; it minimises contact with those public spaces. Media: Can I just clarify: you talked this morning about possible quarantining of Kiwis who do get to come home. What might that look like, and would the Government look at paying for— Prime Minister: Again, as I’ve said, we are very concerned that, again, the border continues to be the issue that we have to make sure we are placing resource and energy into. It is New Zealanders coming home who do pose risk, and I say that with no judgment; it’s just a fact of life for the entire globe right now. Our citizens coming home are the ones carrying COVID-19. Now, we need to care for them, but we also need to care for everyone else that they may potentially otherwise come into contact with and reduce that chance as much as possible. So we’re working through every option. I can’t tell you immediately whether or not that will include, for instance, managing their transportation or keeping them in separate quarantine, but we are exploring all of those options. Media: Do you know how many overseas travellers are still here and may be trying to get out? Prime Minister: No, we do not. But, equally, in the same way it’s becoming difficult for New Zealanders to return home, it will be increasingly difficult for them to leave. Now, we have worked on a transit window to try and get as much reciprocity to get citizens out of New Zealand as we can, but it is becoming increasingly difficult. We will need to—some of these individuals will have been here for a long time. So they don’t pose a COVID risk; they just happen to be stuck in New Zealand. So those are all issues we’re having to work through, but my hope is that, where New Zealanders are stuck, they get the same care as for anyone who is stuck here, because that will be happening the world over. Media: If New Zealand was unfortunate enough to have a major earthquake or natural disaster during the shutdown— Prime Minister: Why on earth would your mind go to that place? Media: Worst-case scenario. Prime Minister: Yeah, worst-case—do you know what, these are things that we are here to think about and plan. And, in my mind constantly, as the Prime Minister of the Shaky Isles, is: no matter what is going on in our lives, we must always be prepared for that. Hon Grant Robertson: You’ll be pleased to know that the Minister responsible for the Earthquake Commission—me—had a teleconference today with the Earthquake Commission and with the chair of that board to discuss exactly, to make sure that we have preparations in place in the event that there is an event during the COVID-19 shutdown. Media: And people would, presumably, ignore the bubble at that point to work shoulder to shoulder with each other? Prime Minister: Oh, of course, at that point, you’re in a position of wanting to make sure that you are saving lives; so we would have to make sure that we were—if we had, for instance, people in buildings, of course we’ve got to make sure our first responders can do their job, and then we work through everything from there. But, yes, first responders would always do their job, and lives come first, which is exactly what we’re doing now. Can I just finish up with a couple more on this side? Media: Has the Deputy Prime Minister committed to working from home over the level 4 restrictions? Prime Minister: That’s actually what all of our Ministers are doing. There’s a small number that we will be utilising to make sure that the business of Parliament, as required, is able to be facilitated; so you will see—part of my bubble is the Minister of Finance, but you will see a limited number in person because we are asking them to work from home. Media: When you said that Government debt collection is not an essential service, I was asking: can people stop paying their student loans? Prime Minister: No. Hon Grant Robertson: Yeah, no, I think we understand the Prime Minister means that that’s not something that we’d be expecting people to go to work to do. In terms of the current rules around student loan repayments, we have no plans to change those at this time. Media: Can I ask a quick “Kiwis in Australia” question? Prime Minister: Yeah, go ahead. Media: They don’t have access to social welfare payments over there. Is there any option for them to get into their super here? Prime Minister: Yeah, so two answers there: of course we have our hardship provisions around super. Secondly, specifically for Kiwis in Australia, if they’re employed in a firm that has received assistance, my understanding is they’re not excluded from the ability of the business to provide them support as part of the business’s employer packages. More generally, though, I have raised this issue with Prime Minister Morrison. I’ve specifically sought: could we have a short-term exemption just for these exceptional circumstances for New Zealanders to be supported, not least because it will encourage compliance at a time when we need everyone to be self-isolating if they have to, for instance. That is not something that has happened at this time, but it’s been raised by both the Deputy Prime Minister and myself with our counterparts. OK, last question. Yeah, right in the front. Media: Overseas, there’s been an outbreak in prisoner populations. Are you confident that you’ve taken the measures that you need for prisoners— Prime Minister: I’m expecting all of our essential services to take all necessary steps to ensure that they are looking after themselves and ensuring that they are not, potentially, putting others at risk. So that’s my expectation of Corrections. All right, we’d better— Media: Prime Minister, if someone’s recovered from COVID, are they now considered immune, or do they still have to— Prime Minister: Look, that is my understanding, and my understanding is, equally, that there is tests being worked on to demonstrate antibody. So that is my understanding, but one for the director-general, perhaps, tomorrow. Yep, in the front. Media: Are there any plans to do anything about provisional tax or GST? Hon Grant Robertson: So we’ve already made announcements about provisional tax. They were among our very, very first announcements around changing some of the rules there, and particularly around making sure that tax debt, the use of money interest there, was written off. On GST, that hasn’t been in our thinking up to this point. I’m always very wary in the speed that we’ve moved, given that it’s a week ago that we did the $12 billion package, that it’s important that we keep options on the table, but, for this point, we’re not planning on any changes on that. Prime Minister: OK, thanks everyone. Last modified: 6 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last modified: 16 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are no scheduled media conferences over the long weekend. Last modified: 1 June 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last modified: 14 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last modified: 15 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last modified: 17 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) The next live media conference is scheduled for Monday 25 May. Last modified: 22 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) The next live media conference is scheduled for Monday 25 May. Last modified: 23 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) The next live media conference is scheduled for Monday 25 May. Last modified: 24 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are no scheduled media conferences over the long weekend. Last modified: 29 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are no scheduled media conferences over the long weekend. Last modified: 30 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are no scheduled media conferences over the long weekend. Last modified: 31 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Media conferences will resume on 11 May. Last modified: 10 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Urgent legislation has been passed to support the package of economic and social measures needed to recover from the impact of the coronavirus outbreak. The main measures contained in this Bill are: Read more on Beehive Website (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The latest updates on COVID-19 from the New Zealand Government. Displaying 11-20 of 147 updates 25 May 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 24 May 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 May 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 May 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 21 May 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health 20 May 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 20 May 2020 The Ministry of Health has released the NZ COVID Tracer app to support contact tracing in New Zealand. 19 May 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 18 May 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 17 May 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Information and advice for people with particular accessibility needs. Accessible information Information translated into 25+ languages. Translated information
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The latest updates on COVID-19 from the New Zealand Government. Displaying 141-147 of 147 updates 18 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health’s Director-General has confirmed a case of COVID-19 in a Dunedin school following a student testing positive for coronavirus. 17 Mar 2020 Finance Minister Grant Robertson today outlined a $12.1 billion package to support New Zealanders. 17 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updated the media at 3:30pm Tuesday 17 March on the health response to COVID-19. 17 Mar 2020 The New Zealand Government is advising New Zealanders to avoid non-essential travel overseas due to the outbreak of COVID-19. 17 Mar 2020 The Government’s commitment to protecting our health is being backed by an initial dedicated $500 million fund to strengthen our health services. 16 Mar 2020 The Government has advised public events or mass gatherings where 500 or more people are together in one place, at one time should be cancelled. 14 Mar 2020 The full Cabinet met this afternoon to make a range of significant decisions to further protect the health of New Zealanders. Information and advice for people with particular accessibility needs. Accessible information Information translated into 25+ languages. Translated information
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The latest updates on COVID-19 from the New Zealand Government. Displaying 21-30 of 147 updates 16 May 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 May 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 May 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 May 2020 Up to 50 people will be allowed to attend funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2. 13 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 May 2020 More advice is available for people at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. 12 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 11 May 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 3 at 11.59pm on Wednesday 13 May. 11 May 2020 Watch the 4pm media conference with government officials and ministers. 10 May 2020 There is no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Information and advice for people with particular accessibility needs. Accessible information Information translated into 25+ languages. Translated information
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The latest updates on COVID-19 from the New Zealand Government. Displaying 31-40 of 147 updates 09 May 2020 There is no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. 08 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 07 May 2020 The Government has released more information on how Alert Level 2 will work. 07 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 05 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 04 May 2020 Watch the latest media conference with the Prime Minister. 04 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 02 May 2020 The Government has announced more support for tertiary learners to access digital devices and internet connections. 01 May 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. Information and advice for people with particular accessibility needs. Accessible information Information translated into 25+ languages. Translated information
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The latest updates on COVID-19 from the New Zealand Government. Displaying 101-110 of 147 updates 01 Apr 2020 There was a COVID-19 media conference from officials on 1 April at 1pm, followed by a media conference from the Prime Minister at 3pm. 31 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health has published a series of modelling reports which were commissioned to help understand the potential impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. 31 Mar 2020 There was a COVID-19 media conference from officials on 31 March at 1.30pm, followed by one from the Prime Minister at 3pm. 31 Mar 2020 Simple guidance is now available for people in New Zealand to keep themselves and others safe while doing their supermarket shop. 31 Mar 2020  30 Mar 2020 Businesses can sell essential non-food consumer products, provided they do so in a way that protects the public and minimises the risk of COVID-19 spreading. 30 Mar 2020 Two media briefings took place today from the All-of-Government COVID-19 National Response. You can watch both briefings below. 30 Mar 2020 New Zealand Government launches new way for people to keep up-to-date with how we're uniting against COVID-19. 29 Mar 2020 The Prime Minister and Director-General of Health announced New Zealand's first death linked to COVID-19 at a media briefing at Parliament on Sunday 29 March. 28 Mar 2020 The Government has temporarily removed tariffs on all medical and hygiene imports needed for the COVID-19 response. Information and advice for people with particular accessibility needs. Accessible information Information translated into 25+ languages. Translated information
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The latest updates on COVID-19 from the New Zealand Government. Displaying 111-120 of 147 updates 28 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health has released new guidance on protective equipment for people in essential jobs that may require physical or close contact. 27 Mar 2020 The Government has made changes to the wage subsidy scheme to help keep businesses and workers connected during this unprecedented time. 26 Mar 2020 To ensure everybody continues to have access to the prescription medication they need, PHARMAC are temporarily changing how pharmacists can fill prescriptions. 26 Mar 2020 Extra funding for community groups and social sector services to ensure they can provide essential support to communities. 25 Mar 2020 Urgent legislation has been passed to support the package of economic and social measures needed to recover from the impact of the coronavirus outbreak. 25 Mar 2020 Info about childcare arrangements for children of essential workers, and self-isolation advice for those with shared custody agreements 25 Mar 2020 The Government is supporting rental tenancies with 6 month freeze on residential rent increases and increased protection from having their tenancies terminated 25 Mar 2020 A State of National Emergency has been declared across the country as the Government pulls out all the stops to curtail the spread of COVID-19. 24 Mar 2020  24 Mar 2020 The Government, retail banks and the Reserve Bank are today announcing a major financial support package for home owners and businesses. Information and advice for people with particular accessibility needs. Accessible information Information translated into 25+ languages. Translated information
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The latest updates on COVID-19 from the New Zealand Government. Displaying 121-130 of 147 updates 24 Mar 2020 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is speaking this afternoon after putting the country on alert yesterday for a lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19. 24 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media on the national COVID-19 response at 1pm. 24 Mar 2020 Minister Phil Twyford announced details of the support package to keep key air freight moving and ensure NZ retains access to essential goods during Level 4. 23 Mar 2020 We have moved to Alert Level 3, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced today. 23 Mar 2020 The Government is backing the Reserve Bank’s latest action to support the economy by reducing longer-term interest rates. 22 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media on the national COVID-19 response at 1pm, 22 March 2020 22 Mar 2020 The New Zealand Government has temporarily closed its High Commission in Bridgetown, Barbados and its Embassy in Yangon, Myanmar due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 22 Mar 2020 Minister Peeni Henare has today announced the Government’s plan to support Māori communities and businesses in the face of COVID-19. 21 Mar 2020  21 Mar 2020  Information and advice for people with particular accessibility needs. Accessible information Information translated into 25+ languages. Translated information
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The latest updates on COVID-19 from the New Zealand Government. Displaying 131-140 of 147 updates 20 Mar 2020  20 Mar 2020  20 Mar 2020 The Govt has allocated $100 million to help redeploy workers affected by the economic impact of COVID-19, with Gisborne-Tairāwhiti to be first helped. 19 Mar 2020  19 Mar 2020 The Government has reinforced its commitment to protecting the health of New Zealanders through the cancellation of indoor events with more than 100 people. 19 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Thursday 19 March on the health response to COVID-19. 19 Mar 2020 Transport Minister Phil Twyford outlined the first tranche of the $600 million aviation sector relief package which was announced earlier this week. 18 Mar 2020 New Zealand has eight new cases of COVID-19, all overseas travel related. 18 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Wednesday 18 March on the health response to COVID-19. 18 Mar 2020 This year’s flu vaccine campaign will be the biggest ever with 400,000 more vaccines available in 2020, compared with last year. Information and advice for people with particular accessibility needs. Accessible information Information translated into 25+ languages. Translated information
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The latest updates on COVID-19 from the New Zealand Government. Displaying 41-50 of 147 updates 01 May 2020 The Government will provide interest free loans for a year to small businesses impacted by the COVID-19 economic shock to support their immediate cashflow needs 01 May 2020 Find out what financial support you could access. 30 Apr 2020 A significant package of tax reforms will be pushed through all stages in Parliament today to throw a cash flow lifeline to small to medium enterprises (SMEs). 30 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 29 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 28 Apr 2020 The Ministry for Social Development has announced several initiatives to help connect employers and job seekers. 28 Apr 2020 The Government has launched a new helpline to provide all NZ businesses with advice and to connect them with additional support. 28 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conferences with government officials and ministers. 27 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 26 Apr 2020 Guidance around what Alert Level 3 means for people over 70 and other higher-risk groups is now available. Information and advice for people with particular accessibility needs. Accessible information Information translated into 25+ languages. Translated information
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. The latest updates on COVID-19 from the New Zealand Government. Displaying 51-60 of 147 updates 25 Apr 2020 The Government has extended the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme ahead of the move to Alert Level 3. 24 Apr 2020 The Government is prioritising the audit process for businesses where complaints have been laid. 24 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 24 Apr 2020 You and your bubble can come together to mark religious events such as Ramadan. 23 Apr 2020 The Government has announced a new $50 million package to support the media industry through the COVID-19 pandemic. 23 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 22 Apr 2020 It is okay to go into your business premises now to do limited, safe activities to begin preparing for Alert Level 3. 22 Apr 2020 The government is asking people to stay home for Anzac Day to reduce transmission of COVID-19. 22 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 21 Apr 2020 Watch the daily media conference with government officials and ministers. Information and advice for people with particular accessibility needs. Accessible information Information translated into 25+ languages. Translated information
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There's no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this site. The information Google Analytics collects includes: The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. On 25 March 2020, the Government declared a state of national emergency. Along with a range of other special powers, a state of national emergency triggers the operation of the Civil Defence National Emergencies (Information Sharing) Code 2013 under the Privacy Act 1993. This gives agencies the authority to collect, use or disclose personal information during a state of national emergency. Certain criteria need to be met for agencies to be able to collect, use or disclose personal information. For example, it must be for purposes directly related to the emergency. The Privacy Commissioner on personal information during a state of national emergency (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. General information, PPE guidance, and Easy Read and Large Print factsheets that you can print at home. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. Unite against COVID-19 campaign resources for broadcasters and media outlets. Follow us on social media, and get logos, headers, email signatures, profile pictures and videos for your own channels. Find phone numbers for when you're not sure what help is available, or for advice and general enquiries. Find key documents and legislation about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Resources to help your business operate safely — including poster, signs, and contact tracing templates.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Call 111 immediately in an emergency. If you're not sure what help is available, or for advice and general enquiries, you can contact the free government helplines. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available or don’t know who to contact for help, call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 5pm, 7 days a week. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 0800 358 5453 . For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. A free helpline is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: Call: Your local Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group can support you if you do not have any other options available. Contact details for Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) groups If you’re Deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Last modified: 14 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Welfare Factsheet [PDF, 129 KB] Welfare contact card A4 [PDF, 51 KB] Welfare contact card A5 [PDF, 50 KB] Self-isolation [PDF, 1.5 MB] New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System specifies measures we must take against COVID-19 at each level. Find out what each Alert Level means for you: Putting on and taking off PPE [PDF, 439 KB] PPE for community care providers [PDF, 177 KB] PPE for nasopharyngeal testing / throat swabs [PDF, 155 KB] PPE for staff caring for COVID-19 patients in hospital [PDF, 170 KB] PPE in maternity care [PDF, 183 KB] PPE for disability support and care workers in clients' homes [PDF, 291 KB] Staying safe when having work done at home or work [PDF, 28 KB] Alert Level 2: Risk assessment questions to determine if PPE required if COVID-19 status is unknown [PDF, 166 KB] Alert Level 2: PPE when caring for a suspected, probable or confirmed COVID 19 case (including for care provided in place of residence) [PDF, 291 KB] Resources in NZ Sign Language, easy read, large print, audio, and animated video formats Resources in other languages Last modified: 29 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] The Government has publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes, and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 17 April. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet has also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Last modified: 28 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. This release includes the papers, minutes, and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 17 April. Where a final decision has been made after 17 April this will be released in a further update. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: In addition to the documents released the Government has made a number of other key pieces of information relating COVID-19 available: Last modified: 8 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Last modified: 9 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Last modified: 8 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Last modified: 30 April 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. You might find it useful to display these posters in your place of business. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You need to adjust your printer settings. Last modified: 29 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) Sign up to the latest updates from Unite against COVID-19 (external link) Logos, headers, email signatures and profile pictures you can use on social media and digital channels. Unite against COVID-19 logo [JPG, 67 KB] Header Logo only [JPG, 44 KB] Header Stripes only [JPG, 36 KB] Header Wash hands icon [JPG, 46 KB] Header Wash hands text and icon [JPG, 60 KB] Header Stay home icon [JPG, 46 KB] Header Stay home text and icon [JPG, 59 KB] Header Be kind icon [JPG, 43 KB] Header Be kind text and icon [JPG, 48 KB] Header Self-isolation icon [JPG, 45 KB] Header Self-isolation text and icon [JPG, 53 KB] Email signature [PNG, 12 KB] Profile picture Be kind text and icon [JPG, 327 KB] Profile picture Unite text [JPG, 151 KB] Profile picture Mā tātau katoa text [JPG, 166 KB] Profile picture Thank you for supporting local text and icon [JPG, 107 KB] Profile picture Thank you Aotearoa text and icon [JPG, 172 KB] Profile picture If you need help, reach out text and icon [JPG, 189 KB] Areas most often missed while handwashing video [MP4, 708 KB] If you're feeling sick, don't put off seeking healthcare video [MP4, 367 KB] Last modified: 9 May 2020
COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Information and advice for people with particular accessibility needs. Accessible information Information translated into 25+ languages. Translated information
You must log in with your CMS password in order to view the draft or archived content. Click here to go back to the published site. You must log in with your CMS password in order to view the draft or archived content. Click here to go back to the published site.  I've lost my password
Enter your e-mail address and we will send you a link with which you can reset your password 
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website hosted and operated by the NZ Government. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you'll be deemed to agree to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content, or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Email us for further information. Email: Pim@NCMC.govt.nz Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. If you would like to use any of the content on the site for commercial purposes, contact us at: Pim@NCMC.govt.nz CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on covid19.govt.nz are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Copyright in photographs on covid19.govt.nz is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute, or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Mobile phones, smartphones or digital devices that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website Last modified: 9 May 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. More information on Alert Level 2 COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. Adopt these simple practices to protect yourself and your whānau. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find out how you and your household can access healthcare, support and essential services. Information for employers and employees on financial support and how to operate safely. Advice for community groups of all kinds. Information is provided in different languages. Find information sheets, social media resources, legal documents and government helplines. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you don't have any data on your device, you'll can use our website. You need to make sure your mobile data is turned on. We’ve removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you'll have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Last modified: 14 April 2020