Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. Upper Northland is at Alert Level 2 with the rest of New Zealand. What you can do to stay safe Find a centre where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated. We all need accurate and reliable information about vaccines. Get the latest updates Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. There are four new COVID-19 community cases to report across the Tararua and Lakes districts. Last updated 15 November 2021 at 1:00 pm Find more information: COVID-19 vaccination rates around NZ 90% Eligible population with 1 dose 81% Eligible population with 2 doses Last updated 15 November 2021 at 1:00 pm For more information: COVID-19 case data Managed isolation and quarantine data NZ COVID Tracer app data 90 Cases in hospital 173 New community cases We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Get your QR code poster Posters to use at Alert Level 3 Social media tiles   Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. What you can do to stay safe Find a centre where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated. We all need accurate and reliable information about vaccines. Get the latest updates Booster doses of the Pfizer vaccine will start being administered from 29 November if it has been 6 months since your second dose. Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated 15 November 2021 at 1:00 pm Find more information: COVID-19 vaccination rates around NZ 90% Eligible population with 1 dose 81% Eligible population with 2 doses Last updated 15 November 2021 at 1:00 pm For more information: COVID-19 case data Managed isolation and quarantine data NZ COVID Tracer app data 90 Cases in hospital 173 New community cases We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Get your QR code poster Posters to use at Alert Level 3 Social media tiles   Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Our website privacy statement, terms of use, contact details if you would like advice or have feedback, and how to access archives of our website. How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. Last updated: 23 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. You can also contact us directly for help with your enquiries. I am looking for... It is OK to ask for help. As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Here is a range of advice, help, or support if you need it. Download a list of available services and support [PDF, 164 KB] If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Find who to contact for COVID-19 related support. If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. Support if you are seeking a job, or if you want to know your rights as an employee and keep yourself safe. There may be support available for employers, employees and those who have lost their job or had their income reduced, or assistance to buy food. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach You can contact the COVID-19 Group by emailing or sending a letter to us. If you are sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Email: covid19response@dpmc.govt.nz Postal address: COVID-19 Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand Last updated: 27 August 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There is no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) Last updated: 8 October 2021 at 1:10 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. You cannot adapt the content. CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence terms (external link) In addition to the above: The content may only be used for the purpose of raising awareness of COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccinations, and communicating the related rules, regulations, guidelines and safety information. The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use (including the “Purpose of use” section above). Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use (including the “Purpose of use” section above). To the extent that the above terms conflicts with the Creative Commons CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence, the above terms will take precedence. The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC) may remove access to the content at any time, and contact users to let them know if the content is out of date. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website Last updated: 4 October 2021 at 7:49 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) Last updated: 6 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. We all need food and essential items such as medicine through Alert Level changes, so please do not try to go without. Information on eating out and going to cafes, restaurants, bars and night clubs at the different Alert Levels. Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Advice about attending events and using public venues at each of the Alert Levels. Advice on going to a place of worship, attending a faith-based celebration or festival, and for people who are responsible for places of worship. Advice on fishing and boating at each of the Alert Levels. Advice on funerals, tangihanga and providing last rites for families and whānau. Advice about who can be included in your household bubble at each Alert Level. Advice about meeting friends and whānau safely, and going to private social gatherings. Information on moving house, home maintenance, and buying or selling a property. Advice on hosting or attending a private social gathering at each of the Alert Levels. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on shared parenting arrangements, childcare and using childcare providers at different Alert Levels. Information on shopping, visiting retail stores and using personal care services. Advice on playing sports and other recreational activities at each of the Alert Levels. Advice for people planning to get married or form a civil union, people attending a wedding or civil union, and venues hosting these events. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you are sick or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, talk to your family, whānau, friends and neighbours to see if they can deliver essential items to you. You can use your supermarket’s click-and-collect service, and ask a local friend, family member or neighbour to drop off groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. You can also visit their website to find out more. If you cannot access cooked food delivery services (like Meals on Wheels) from the Ministry of Social Development, a district health board or ACC, you can order food from bakeries and uncooked food suppliers. These include subscription food boxes. For subscription food boxes try Bargain Box, Hello Fresh or My Food Bag. Subscription food boxes can only deliver uncooked food. The Student Volunteer Army Grocery Delivery Service is available nationwide to people who are self-isolating or who have no other way to access food. If you have tried and cannot get support through any other options, contact your local Civil Defence and Emergency Management (CDEM) Group. Find your local civil defence group | civildefence.govt.nz (external link) If you need help with money to buy food or essential supplies, Work and Income may be able to help. You do not need to be on a benefit to get help. Work and Income can help with paying for food, accommodation costs, power and gas bills, heating and medical or dental costs. You can also apply for a main benefit online and check if you can get help with food. You can also use our financial support tool to see what support is available to you. Use our financial support tool If you need food, your local food bank may be able to help. Find a food bank | familyservices.govt.nz (external link) Access to food or essential items fact sheet [PDF, 76 KB] Last updated: 4 November 2021 at 9:26 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open as normal. There are no limits on the number of people you can drink or dine with, and you do not have to be seated to be served. All cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. Cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open, but with extra safety measures. There are no restrictions on the number of customers that can be seated inside or outside at venues — as long as everyone can safely stay 1 metre apart. Customers must be seated at a table to eat or drink. Cafes, restaurants and takeaways can only open for contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through — this includes at Steps 1 and 2. You cannot go in to dine. Nightclubs are closed. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, can also operate. Liquor stores can only offer contactless pick-up and delivery (if their liquor licence allows delivery). All cafes, restaurants, takeaways, and nightclubs must close. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, cannot operate. Last updated: 9 November 2021 at 9:45 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Advice for schools | Ministry of Education (external link) Who does not need to wear a face covering At Alert Level 1, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. There are no restrictions on school activities like camps, sports practices, school productions and interschool events. If you or your child is sick, staying home is the best thing you can do to stop the spread of COVID-19. Remind your tamariki (children) to wash and dry their hands often, and cough or sneeze into their elbow. All schools, kura and early learning services legally must display a QR code. If you have older children, encourage them to sign in and keep track of where they have been. The NZ COVID Tracer app is the best way to help us contact trace quickly and safely. Advice for parents and whānau (external link) At Alert Level 2, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Schools should put extra public health control measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and keep staff, students and tamariki safe. Schools should provide distance learning options for tamariki who cannot attend school – for example, if they need to self-isolate. School events or activities like performances, cultural events and sports can continue. Ākonga and teachers do not need to physically distance. But parents, carers and whānau who visit the school should try to keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. Primary and secondary school students are allowed to travel across the Alert Level Boundary to return to their school hostel. This includes travelling to an Alert Level 3 area or travelling to an Alert Level 2 area to get to school. Parents or caregivers can travel with their children, but they must return home after dropping their children off. Students must stay in their school hostel for the remainder of the 2021 year. Students and parents or caregivers must carry evidence of their travel and meet all testing requirements. Travel across an Alert Level 3 and 2 boundary More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) At Alert Level 2, tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials, and meetings in person. Tertiary providers should provide distance learning options for those students who cannot attend classes in person, and to make sure students who do attend in-person classes can distance safely. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Students can travel between an Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 area to attend classes in person, and return to their student accommodation. If you have already relocated (for example to your student accomodation), you can go back to get your belongings. You can travel in either direction across the Alert Level Boundary, and you should move your belongings in as few trips as possible. You may need evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result administered no more than 72 hours before your travel, and you will also need to carry evidence of your reason to travel. You are also permitted to travel back home for the holidays at the end of the university year. Travel across an Alert Level 3 and 2 boundary Face coverings in schools and tertiary education facilities for those aged 12 and over is strongly encouraged, but it is not a requirement. Staff and students must wear a face covering at tertiary education facilities when accessing services such as student health, pharmacies, banks and other retailers on campus. At Alert Level 3, early learning centres can open to provide childcare for tamariki (children) whose parents need to go into work. Play centres and play groups must close. Early learning centres can reopen to all tamariki, with a maximum of 20 children in each bubble. Parents and caregivers must wear a face covering when picking up and dropping off their tamariki, and try to keep 1 metre distance from others. Teaching staff, including volunteers, must get a negative COVID-19 test within the 5 days before they return to work, even if they do not have any symptoms. Home based early learning services can continue to provide education for tamariki. Play groups and play centres cannot open. Getting a COVID-19 test Advice for bubbles at early learning centres | education.govt.nz (external link) Schools and kura will be open for tamariki in Years 1 to 10 whose parents or carers need to go to work and have no available options for childcare. All young people in Years 11, 12 and 13 should learn from home. We encourage you to keep your tamariki at home if you have other caregiving options. Your child's school will work with you to find out which tamariki need to go into school. Schools should provide distance learning options for all tamariki and young people who are learning from home, including those tamariki who need to self-isolate and cannot attend school. Schools must set up bubbles to help maintain physical distancing in the classroom and outside. Each bubble should have no more than 20 tamariki or rangatahi. Teachers are not included in this total. Teachers should stay with the same bubble of students. From Wednesday 17 November, tamariki in Years 1 to 10 will be able to return to school for face-to-face learning. Tamariki will be able to travel across the Alert Level Boundary each day to attend school — if they need to. Travel across an Alert Level Boundary Staff and students in Years 4 to 10 will be required to wear a face covering indoors — unless they are exempt. We encourage parents or caregivers whose tamariki have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable to apply for an exemption for their child in preparation for their return to school. Exemptions from face coverings Ākonga (students) in Years 11, 12 and 13 in Alert Level 3 areas can attend school for face-to-face learning. Ākonga who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 should continue to learn from home, unless they are fully vaccinated. All ākonga and staff must wear a face covering when at school — un less they are exempt. This includes on school transport services. All NCEA and Scholarship exams will continue and will follow public health guidelines. Alert Level 3 requirements for secondary schools Ministry of Education resources and advice for parents and whānau for learning from home (external link) Primary and secondary school students are allowed to travel across the Alert Level Boundary to return to their school hostel. This includes travelling to an Alert Level 3 area or travelling to an Alert Level 2 area to get to school. Parents or caregivers can travel with their children, but they must return home after dropping their children off. Students must stay in their school hostel for the remainder of the 2021 year. Students and parents or caregivers must carry evidence of their travel and meet all testing requirements. Travel across an Alert Level 3 and 2 boundary Staff who have not yet returned to work will need evidence of a negative COVID-19 test before they can work on site. The testing requirements apply to volunteers, contractors and unpaid staff. Everyone must get a test, even if they have been fully vaccinated. At Alert Level 3 — including Steps 1 and 2, all tertiary education providers should deliver their courses online. In some cases online learning may not be an option — for example lab work or research. Tertiary providers can deliver some education services in person if they can meet public health guidelines. Limit in person classes or workshops to 10 people per class. This group of 10 should include the tutor. Each class is considered a bubble and must not interact with any other student/staff bubbles of 10. Staff and students should wear a face covering when attending classes in person. Students can travel between an Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 area to attend classes in person, and return to their student accommodation. If you have already relocated (for example to your student accomodation), you can go back to get your belongings. You can travel in either direction across the Alert Level Boundary, and you should move your belongings in as few trips as possible. You may need evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result administered no more than 72 hours before your travel, and you will also need to carry evidence of your reason to travel. You are also permitted to travel back home for the holidays at the end of the university year. Travel across an Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundary Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) Student accommodation — for example university halls of residence — can remain open with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. Students should continue to stay in their accommodation and keep to their bubble. If your tamariki or rangatahi has a learning need, you can invite one teacher aide to be a part of your bubble so they can provide face-to-face learning. The teacher aide cannot join any other school bubble. At Alert Level 4, all education facilities are closed. This includes: All students must learn from home. Your child's school will contact you directly about organising learning materials and devices to be delivered to your home. Tertiary accommodation can remain open. If you normally live in student accommodation, but you travelled home to stay with friends or whānau during Alert Level 4, you cannot return to your student accommodation until Alert Level 4 restrictions are lifted. Learning from home resources and information | Ministry of Education (external link) Home learning TV | TVNZ (external link) Mauri Reo, Mauri Ora | Māori TV (external link) COVID-19 information | Ministry of Education (external link) If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your tamariki. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your tamariki. The carer cannot join another household bubble. All tamariki, rangatahi, and ākonga (students) should stay home if they are unwell. If you or your child develops cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. If you or your child are told to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. If you or your child are asked to get a COVID-19 test, please get one. COVID-19 tests are free for everyone, including international students. By getting a test you are helping keep everyone safe. More information on getting a COVID-19 test At Alert Levels 1 and 2, face coverings in schools and tertiary education facilities are strongly encouraged for those aged 12 and over — but they are not a requirement. At Alert Level 3, all staff and students in Year 9 to Year 13 must wear a face covering when indoors. Parents and caregivers may want to wear a face covering when dropping or picking up their tamariki from school. Tamariki and students who are over 12 years old legally must wear a face covering on public transport — including on school transport. People with certain health or medical conditions do not have to wear face coverings. Find out when you need to wear a face covering From 1 January 2022, all staff and support people who have contact with tamariki (children) and rangatahi (young people) must be fully vaccinated. They need to have their first dose by 15 November 2021. At Alert Level 3, staff who are not fully vaccinated must continue to get tested for COVID-19 and provide evidence of a negative test result every 7 days until they are fully vaccinated. Mandatory vaccinations for the education sector Find testing locations in your area (external link) If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it will close for at least 72 hours to allow for cleaning and contact tracing. Schools should follow Ministry of Health advice or advice from the local health authority. If you are a student who is struggling financially, you may be able to ask Studylink for help. COVID-19 information for students (external link) Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 9:47 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people who can attend a large event or gathering. You can hold events both indoors and outdoors. All public facilities such as libraries, museums and cinemas can open. You can travel to attend events in another town or city. At Alert Level 2, t here are no restrictions on the number of people that can attend an event at a venue, for example at a stadium, cinema, theatre, casino, concert hall or conference venue — as long as everyone can safely stay 1 metre apart. Attendees can be seated or standing. This includes indoor and outdoor event facilities, and both ticketed and non-ticketed events. Events that are held outdoors but not at an event facility — for example a concert at a park, a parade, or an organised sporting event like an amateur club rugby tournament must follow the rules for social gatherings. These are limited to 100 people in any defined indoor or outdoor space. Social gatherings — for example weddings, civil unions, workplace get togethers, birthday parties, stag dos, hens parties and other private functions are limited to 100 people — even if they are held at an event facility. Social gatherings at Alert Level 2 Everyone attending your event needs to keep a safe distance from people they do not know. Attendees must stay 1 metre away from each other — unless the entire venue has been hired for a private social gathering. People working at the event also need to stay 1 metre apart from each other. Performers do not need to wear a face covering when on stage, but we encourage them to wear one backstage. Staff working at an event are encouraged to wear a face covering but this is not a requirement — unless they are serving food or drinks. Attendees are encouraged to wear a face covering where possible — they can take it off to eat and drink. Customers at a cinema or theatre do not have to be seated at a table and are able to consume food and drink from their seats. At all other event facilities, if you are providing food and drinks everyone must be seated at a table to eat and drink. Tables should be spaced 1 metre apart to help with physical distancing. Workers serving food and drinks must wear a face covering. If your event has a licence to sell alcohol, attendees m ust be seated at a table to be served. This means attendees will not be able to go up to the bar to order, even if they are ordering food or a non-alcoholic drink. If your event is not licenced, a ttendees can buy food and drink from the counter area but they must be seated at a table to eat or drink. We encourage you to use contactless payment options for selling tickets. Ask attendees to buy their tickets online, before they come to the event to avoid queueing at the venue. In enclosed spaces, such as indoor settings, or indoor areas of outdoor venues, good ventilation can help to reduce the transmission of COVID-19. If you’re organising an event in an indoor venue, you should think about: At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a concert, conference, sports game or any other event. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 area, attendees will need to meet physical distancing guidelines, and keep 1 metre apart. At Alert Level 2, public venues such as libraries, art galleries and museums can open. Public venues also include indoor recreation facilities — for example, swimming pools, gyms and health clubs. If people can safely maintain 2 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people can be inside. Some venues may choose to limit the number of visitors to meet physical distancing requirements. Please follow the instructions of the venue, and be prepared to queue. Employees working at indoor public venues legally must wear a face covering — except for at a swimming pool. If you go to a public venue: Sports and recreation at Alert Level 2 If you are feeling unwell, stay home and call Healthline or your doctor for advice. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still stay home if you are feeling unwell. Staying home will help protect you, your whānau, friends and community. At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Events cannot go ahead. The only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings , civil unions, funerals and tangihanga with restrictions on numbers. Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, some venues, for example community centres or sports club rooms can open to provide an essential service — for example, a food bank or vaccination centre. Members of the public are permitted to enter the premises to use the essential service. Anyone accessing an essential service must wear a face covering and keep 2 metres away from people who are not in their household bubble. At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Events cannot go ahead. All public facilities and venues — for example, museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. All venues must have ways for people — including staff and guests to record their visit. You can do this by displaying a QR code for your venue and asking people to scan in. If an event is either indoors or outdoors and in one defined space, you can use one QR code for the event. If the event is spread out across sites, we recommend having separate QR codes for each business or exhibit. You should also use an event QR code at entrances to help people sign in. You also need to provide an alternative way for people to record their visit, especially for people who are not able to scan QR codes. Find out more information about record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster Last updated: 19 October 2021 at 4:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out the Alert Level for your region At different Alert Levels, faith-based gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for faith-based gatherings. There are no restrictions on the number of people that can attend a faith-based gathering. This includes: Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 1 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 1    Places of worship can host services and ceremonies to a maximum of 100 people in any indoor or outdoor defined space. The gathering limits do not include staff — for example, clergy. Defined spaces Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 2 Funerals advice for faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 2 You can get together with up to 100 people for a faith-based celebration or festival. The number of people who can attend a gathering or celebration does not include anyone leading or working at the gathering. If you are organising a faith-based celebration, you need to do the following: You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a faith-based gathering — such as services, ceremonies and festivals. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the gathering limits apply. If you are travelling to an Alert Level 1 region to attend a faith based gathering, make sure you do it in a safe way. This includes: You can only travel into and out of the Alert Level 3 area (in 1 trip) to attend a: You cannot cross travel across the Alert Level boundary to attend any other type of faith-based gathering. If you are crossing the Alert Level 3 boundary: Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. At Alert Level 3, places of worship can only open to members of the public for weddings, civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga. Up to 10 people can attend a wedding, civil union ceremony, funeral, tangihanga or burial. The 10 person limit does not include the person conducting the wedding or civil union, kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. This means you can have a total of 15 people — 10 guests and 5 staff. You can serve food or drink but guests must be seated to be served. Other services can be livestreamed. We encourage whānau to pray or worship together in their household bubbles and join a livestream online. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 3 Funerals advice for faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 At Step 1, weddings, civil union ceremonies, funerals, tangihanga or burials are still limited to 10 people plus 5 staff. This limit applies both indoors and outdoors. Other faith-based gatherings cannot go ahead. At Step 2, up to 25 people can attend a wedding, civil union ceremony, funeral, tangihanga, burial or viewing. The 25-person limit does not include the person conducting the wedding or civil union, kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. This means you can have a total of 30 people — 25 guests and 5 staff. You can serve food or drink but guests must be seated to be served. Other faith-based gatherings cannot go ahead. Services and ceremonies can be livestreamed. You can go onto the premises if you are conducting the service or are involved in broadcasting the livestream event — for example, a camera person. Places of worship can also open to provide an essential service — for example, a food bank or vaccination centre. Members of the public are permitted to enter the premises to use the essential service. Anyone visiting a place of worship to access an essential service must wear a face covering and keep 2 metres away from people who are not in their household bubble. At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay in our household bubbles. Gathering together for faith-based celebrations and festivals is not permitted. You can come together within your existing household bubble and you can also expand your bubble slightly to bring in close family, caregivers, or to support people who may be isolated. Keep your bubble small and exclusive. We encourage you to talk to your whānau and friends to plan how you can all celebrate together virtually. Places of worship cannot open to the public for faith-based ceremonies or services. This includes weddings, civil unions and funerals and tangihanga. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 4 Funerals advice for faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 4 We acknowledge that this may be difficult for people who want to gather together for prayer or worship. Services can be livestreamed from a church, mosque, marae, temple or other place of worship. You can go onto the premises if you are conducting the service or are involved in broadcasting the livestream event — for example, a camera person. Places of worship can open to provide an essential service — for example, a food bank or vaccination centre. Members of the public are permitted to enter the premises to use the essential service. Anyone visiting a place of worship to access an essential service must wear a face covering and keep 2 metres away from people who are not in their household bubble. Gathering together for faith-based celebrations or festivals is not permitted. You can come together within your existing household bubble to celebrate with the people you live with. We encourage you to talk to your whānau and friends to plan how you can all celebrate together virtually. Last updated: 11 November 2021 at 11:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out the Alert Level for your region You can do your usual sport and recreation activities, including fishing and boating. There are no limits on the number of people you can go fishing or boating with. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if you are sick. You can do your usual sport and recreation activities, including fishing and boating, if you can do them safely. There are no limits on the number of people you can go fishing or boating with. Try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if you are sick. Do low-risk activities so you do not need rescuing or medical care. Try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if you are sick. You can fish from a wharf or the shore, but you cannot cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. You can fish from a kayak if you stay within 200 metres from the shore. We encourage you to stay as close to the shore as possible. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. You can fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and remember boating is not allowed. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: Boating is not allowed. You can participate in a wide range of recreation activities that were previously not permitted at Alert Level 3. All the other rules for Alert Level 3 remain in place. You can fish from a wharf, the shore, or a boat or vessel — this includes both motorised and sailing boats . You cannot cast off the rocks. You can take part in water-based activities involving sailing boats, motorised boats or other craft like jet skis, and scuba diving. Commercial boating companies should not operate. Boating activities should be limited to people from the same household. People from outside the Auckland or Waikato regions cannot travel into Auckland or the Waikato to go boating for recreational purposes. You cannot stay overnight on your boat. All boating trips must be day trips only. You must stick to simple outdoor exercise and avoid activities where you can get injured or lost. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if you are sick. You can fish from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. You can fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and remember boating is not allowed. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: Boating is not allowed. Last updated: 11 November 2021 at 11:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out the Alert Level for your region Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher Alert Levels, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga. We encourage you to print off and display a NZ COVID Tracer app QR code to help with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster There are limits on the number of people who can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Up to 100 people can attend a funeral or tangihanga both indoors and outdoors. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: You do not need to wear a face covering when attending a funeral or tangihanga but we encourage you to wear one, if possible. Do not attend a funeral, tangihanga or religious gathering if you are feeling unwell. S tay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a test. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging except if you: Organisers must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing took place, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. At Alert Level 2, funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by the Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. The gathering limits for funerals still apply. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) You can travel to another region that is at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a funeral or tangihanga. If you need to travel to an Alert Level 3 region to attend a funeral or tangihanga, you will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Health. This includes crossing from one Alert Level 3 area into another neighbouring Alert Level 3 area — for example, going from Auckland to Northland. Exemptions are only granted on a case-by-case basis and are not guaranteed. Apply for an exemption (external link) You can travel into and out of the Alert Level 3 area (in 1 trip) to: Your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 3 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency — to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 3 guidance. Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of  tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead, but with restrictions on the number of people that can attend. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place. Families and communities must not carry out funerals themselves. Funeral directors can continue working. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements — they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. If you are attending a funeral or tangihanga, we recommend you: Funeral directors legally must keep a record of all the people who enter the funeral home. If you're visiting a funeral home, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Religious rituals must be done in the presence of an embalmer or funeral director. Your funeral director will let you know about any PPE requirements, and the public health guidelines you need to follow. The gathering limits for funerals still apply. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) You can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while keeping 2 metres away from people not in your bubble. You can travel to another area within an Alert Level 3 region to: Travel across the Alert Level boundary is still restricted to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel to an Alert Level 2 region to attend a funeral or tangihanga, you will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Health. Exemptions are only granted on a case-by-case basis and are not guaranteed. Apply for an exemption (external link) Gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not allowed at Alert Level 4. This is because they present a high risk of spreading COVID-19. Staying home is the best way to protect our whānau. This includes: You cannot travel to attend a funeral or tangihanga. We recommend you talk to the funeral director to organise virtual options. If someone in your whānau or in your bubble passes away, the following steps can help you make the necessary arrangements. Māori communities, iwi, hapū and whānau are being encouraged to establish local kaiwhakarite or people who can assist whānau during this time. Get in touch with your iwi and hapū organisations or local marae to see if a kaiwhakarite has already been established. Whānau can go into a funeral home to view the tūpāpaku if they are all in the same household bubble. You will need to book this in advance. There are strict requirements that funeral directors need to follow. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Everyone attending a viewing must wear a face covering. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Funeral directors legally must keep a record of all the people who enter the funeral home. If you're visiting a funeral home, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Funeral directors will continue working during Alert Level 4. They will be able to guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include: Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Whānau who live in the same region as their whānau urupā can choose to have their loved one buried there. Whānau will need to make the urupā arrangements themselves. Your local marae can assist whānau by phone, email or video-conference with making these arrangements. Funeral directors will work with Muslim communities to identify people who can carry out ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body). Religious rituals must be done in the presence of an embalmer or funeral director. Your funeral director will let you know about any PPE requirements, and the public health guidelines you need to follow. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link)  Last updated: 11 November 2021 at 11:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out the Alert Level for your region Your household bubble (or ‘bubble’) is the group of people you have day-to-day, physical contact with — for example, your immediate family or flatmates. It may also include close friends or workmates. At some Alert Levels, there are restrictions on who can be included in your bubble. This is to reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are no restrictions on who can be included in your household bubble. You can invite people to your home and gather with them in a public place. There are no restrictions on who can be included in your household bubble. You can invite people to your home and gather with them in a public place. Gatherings are limited to 100 people in any indoor or outdoor space. At Alert Level 3, you cannot meet other households. This means you cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. At Steps 1 and 2, you will be able to meet close friends and whānau with some restrictions. You can expand your household bubble to bring in people who live alone, caregivers or close whānau — as long as everyone in the bubble agrees. You can meet with people who are in your extended bubble inside your house. Keep your bubble small and exclusive. Tamariki can travel between their parents' or caregivers' homes under a shared custody arrangement — inc luding between an Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 area. This includes care for tamariki under a whāngai arrangement. Parents or caregivers can accompany their tamariki to and from the home of the other parent or caregiver. Everyone aged 12 and over must have evidence of a COVID-19 test within 7 days of travel. If tamariki are travelling for a shared parenting arrangement, they do not need proof of travel. Travel across the Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundary If you need to go to work and you have no other available options for childcare, you can apply for an exemption to bring in a carer from an Alert Level 2 area. Exemptions are only granted on a case-by-case basis and are not guaranteed. You can apply through the Ministry of Health. Apply for an exemption (external link) You must keep your household bubble as small as possible. Only make physical contact with those in your bubble. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your household bubble. This arrangement must be exclusive between you and the other household. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. Events, including family and social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes parties, funerals and tangihanga, and weddings. If you are not safe, you can leave your bubble. Family violence and sexual violence support lines are open for people to call, email or text. Wellbeing helplines and support If you or someone you know is in danger, call 111 . During Alert Level 4, tamariki (children) can continue to go between 2 homes to form a shared bubble if their parents or caregivers have a: Your shared bubble can include 2 households at most, and the other household must be in the same or adjacent district. If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. The carer cannot join another household bubble. Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 4 Last updated: 27 October 2021 at 2:56 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out the Alert Level for your region There are no restrictions on the number of people you can invite to your home or gather with in a public place. You can travel to meet friends and whānau in another town or city. You can do your part to keep you, your whānau and friends safe and reduce the chances of spreading COVID-19. We encourage you to: You can visit your friends and whānau in a rest home or care facility. There are no restrictions on the number of visitors, and visitors do not have to be from the same household bubble. Please do not visit a care facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. You can get together with friends and whānau but gatherings are limited to 100 people in both indoor and outdoor settings. Social gatherings include: Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the indoor and outdoor gathering limits. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 2 Weddings and civil union ceremonies at Alert Level 2 Faith-based gatherings at Alert Level 2 Private social gatherings at Alert Level 2 You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to visit friends or whānau or attend a social gathering. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the indoor and outdoor gathering limits apply. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot physically distance, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits to keep you, your whānau, and your community safe. If you have hired a venue for a gathering, you still need to follow the indoor and outdoor gathering limits. If you are meeting friends or whānau at a cafe or restaurant, you will need to follow the establishment's safety measures. You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. You may have to complete a health check before you visit, and visiting hours may be limited. Facilities may also limit the number of visitors. Please check with the facility or rest home before you visit. When visiting a rest home or care facility, remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, wash or sanitise your hands and wear a face covering. Keep your bubble as small as possible. Your household bubble is the group of people you have day-to-day, physical contact with. At Alert Level 3, it includes the people you live with and, if necessary, isolated people or caregivers — as long as everyone in the bubble agrees. You cannot invite other friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. Indoor gatherings are not permitted at Alert Level 3, including at Steps 1 and 2. You can get together with friends and whānau to attend a wedding, civil union, funeral or tangihanga but there are some restrictions.  You will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. You can apply for an exemption to visit whānau on compassionate grounds, such as visiting those whānau who are in palliative care. You will need to talk to the healthcare provider about an exemption. At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay in our household bubble. You cannot invite friends, whānau or extended family to your home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. If you want to talk to a friend, call or video chat with them. You can drop off groceries to others, but drop the groceries at the door. Always keep a 2 metre distance. Children can travel between the homes of separated parents. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your household bubble. This arrangement must be exclusive between you and the other household. Events or gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes birthday parties, weddings, funerals and tangihanga. You will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. Last updated: 11 November 2021 at 11:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can move house, sell your home, go to open homes and auctions and carry out maintenance and inspections on a property. There are no restrictions on travel. To keep everyone safe, we encourage you to: If you are a property manager or landlord, you should not visit your tenant's home if they are sick or are self-isolating. You can move house, including between different Alert Level areas. If you are moving to an area at Alert Level 1 or 2, friends or whānau can help you move or you can use a moving company. Movers need to follow physical distancing guidelines and record where they have been. If you are unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19, stay home and get tested. You can move house permanently or long-term across an Alert Level boundary if: You can use a moving company to help you move. You will need to check if friends or whanau can help you. You must carry documents that show you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You may also need to carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result administered no more than 72 hours before travel. You may also need to carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result administered no more than 72 hours before travel. Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary You can hold and go to open homes, auctions and private viewings. Open homes, auctions and viewings are limited to 100 people. Try to keep at least 2 metres away from people you do not know. The agent organising the open home may limit numbers to help with physical distancing. Open homes must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code — remember to sign in or record your details on the alternative system like a paper register. Do not go to an open home if you are feeling unwell. Property inspectors, property valuers, engineers, tradespeople and cleaners can visit your home. If you are a landlord, make sure you get your tenant's consent first. Anyone inspecting or carrying out maintenance on a property needs to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. They also must wear a face covering. Try to limit the number of people visiting your property at the same time to help with physical distancing. We recommend keeping a record of the people who visit your home to help with contact tracing. People should not visit your property if you or any of the occupants are unwell or are self-isolating. You can move house within the Alert Level 3 area if you are moving or relocating home permanently. You should carry documents with you to show that you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You can use a moving company. Movers will need to keep 2 metres apart from you. We encourage you to wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. Friends and whānau cannot help you move at Alert Level 3, unless they are already part of your bubble. You can move house permanently or long-term across an Alert Level boundary if: You can use a moving company to help you move. You will need to check if friends or whānau can help you move. You must carry documents that show you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You may also need to carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result administered no more than 72 hours before travel.  Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary You can buy or sell a property, but we recommend you delay settlement until Alert Levels 1 or 2. We encourage you to view a property online where possible. One-on-one viewings and pre-settlement inspections may be possible. You can go to open homes but they will have physical distancing requirements and restrictions on how many people can be present. They may operate with a one-in, one-out policy. If you need to view a property in person, try to organise a time when the residents are not at home. You must wear a face covering and sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app or another method. You cannot travel from an Alert Level 3 area to an Alert Level 2 area (or in the other direction) to view a property. Buying a home at Alert Level 3 | settled.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Selling your home at Alert Level 3 | settled.govt.nz (external link) You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. However, we recommend you limit this to urgent repairs. Tradespeople and other workers must wear a face covering when they come into your house. We recommend you move to a different room while they are working to help with physical distancing. Do not invite people to your home for maintenance if you or anyone in your household is unwell. If you are a landlord, you can carry out any property inspections if you can do it safely. Try to keep 2 metres away from your tenant, and wear a face covering when carrying out an inspection. We encourage you to do virtual inspections if the tenant agrees. At the end of the tenancy, the landlord and tenant can do the final property inspection together, if both the landlord and the tenant agree. Alternatively, tenants can also take photos of the property’s condition before leaving. Information for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) There will be no face-to-face hearings, but they can happen virtually. Everyone must stay in their current home or accommodation. You can only move house if you: If you have to move, you must follow all Alert Level 4 rules. You cannot hire a moving company. If your tenancy is ending, talk to your landlord about getting an extension. If you have signed a new tenancy agreement and you are due to move in at Alert Level 4, talk to your landlord about postponing the start date. If you have bought or sold a property and settlement was due to occur at Alert Level 4, we encourage you to contact the other party and come to an agreement. You can only move house under extreme circumstances, for example for care while sick or to seek refuge in a women’s refuge accommodation. For any new sale and purchase agreements, we recommend that lawyers insert a clause into the agreement to delay settlement until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or lower. You cannot go to open homes and auctions, but they can happen virtually. You can contact a real estate agent by phone, video conference or email, but you cannot meet with them face to face. Property inspections cannot take place in person. If you are a landlord, we recommend you wait until Alert Level 1 or 2 to inspect your property or do a virtual inspection if the tenant agrees. You can have a tradesperson come to your home for urgent maintenance or repairs. Non urgent repairs and maintenance cannot happen. There will be no face-to-face hearings, but they can happen virtually. Information for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 4 November 2021 at 11:57 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out the Alert Level for your region The rules on this page apply to private social gatherings. A private social gathering is informal and involves getting together with friends and whānau you regularly socialize with. Private social gatherings can include: Advice for planning and attending a wedding or civil union Private social gatherings can go ahead as normal — t here are no physical distancing requirements, or limits on gathering numbers. But COVID-19 is still around and we all need to be ready in case it reappears in our community. There are some simple things you can do to stay safe and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. You can host or attend a gathering of up to 100 people in any defined indoor or outdoor space. The 100 person limit does not include workers providing services to a gathering. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If your venue has multiple defined spaces, you need to make sure the two groups do not mix. This means making sure you have separate entrances for shared areas —  for example bathrooms or counters where people go up to order or pay. We all need to stay in our bubble — t he only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings , civil unions, funerals and tangihanga with restrictions on numbers. At Steps 1 and 2, you can start to meet friends and whānau outdoors — with some restrictions. Indoor social gatherings are not permitted at Alert Level 3, including at Steps 1 and 2. At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay in our household bubbles.  Private social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes gatherings in your home and in public spaces. You can only celebrate with people in your household bubble. We encourage you to connect virtually with your friends and wh ānau to celebrate special events. Last updated: 11 November 2021 at 11:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out the Alert Level for your region At Alert Level 1, all shops and services can operate as normal. Do not shop if you are sick, have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been to self-isolate. All supermarkets, retail stores and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. Remember to scan in and have Bluetooth tracing turned on. You can access the following goods and services at all Alert Levels: This can be in person, through friends and whānau or getting deliveries to your home. Close contact personal care services can operate at Alert Levels 1 and 2. Personal care services include services like: A cleaner can come into your home at Alert Levels 1 and 2. You can get a tradesperson to come into your home for repairs at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. At Alert Level 4, you can only ask a tradesperson to carry out urgent maintenance or repairs. Anyone entering your home will need to follow the rules for the current Alert Level. At Alert Level 2, all shops and services can operate but with extra safety measures. Remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Working safely at Alert Level 2 You can go in-store to shop but you will need to keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know. Retail stores and supermarkets may limit the number of people allowed on their premises to help with physical distancing. Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19, or have been told to self-isolate. At Alert Level 2, halal butchers can open and have customers in store. The shop legally must follow physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. Farmers markets can open at Alert Level 2, with some restrictions. Hairdressers, barbers and businesses providing personal care services, such as massage or beauty treatments can open but with restrictions. Workers providing these services legally must wear a face covering while at work and keep 2 metres apart from their clients, except for when close physical contact is needed to provide the service. Clients do not need to wear a face covering, but it is encouraged where possible. Businesses will also need to make sure they maintain good hygiene practices, and regularly clean and disinfect shared equipment and surfaces. Businesses can continue to provide beauty and personal care services in people's homes. If the person providing the service is unwell, they should not come into your home. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know, for example in waiting areas. If you are sick or feeling unwell, please call and reschedule your appointment. At Alert Level 2, you can use animal and pet care services — for example, doggy daycare, dog grooming, kennels and catteries. You can also sell or adopt pets. Veterinary services can open. You must wear a face covering when visiting a veterinary clinic. More information about animal welfare and pet care services at Alert Level 2 | mpi.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, you can get a cleaner or tradesperson to come into your home. You will need to keep 2 metres away from them at all times, so try to move to a different room while they are working. Try to minimise physical contact by paying for the service online. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. At Alert Level 2, you can renew your driver license and sit a driving test. Mechanics and vehicle testing stations can also open. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) At Alert Level 3, supermarkets, dairies, butchers, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations and pharmacies can have customers on their premises. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household and wear a face covering. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one-in, one-out" policy. Food banks will be open at Alert Level 3. All other retail stores can open for contactless pick-up and delivery. Retail stores continue to be contactless. At Alert Level 3 Step 2 all stores can open to customers. This means you can go in-store to shop but you will need to keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know. Shops may limit the number of people allowed on their premises to help with physical distancing. You must wear a face covering when going in-store to shop. People in Auckland and parts of Waikato that are at Step 2 can travel anywhere in their region to go shopping. You will not be able to eat or drink inside any retail stores. For example, a food court inside a shopping mall can only open for contactless pick-up or delivery. Advice for retail businesses at Step 2 From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. This means you can continue to drive your vehicle to access essential services. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) At Step 2, driver licencing agents can reopen — but not all services will be available. Driving lessons and tests cannot happen at Alert Level 3 — including at Steps 1 and 2. Driver licencing services available at Alert Level 3 (external link) Halal butchers can open and have customers in store. You will need to wear a face covering when going in-store to shop. Some butchers may choose to take online or phone orders to help with physical distancing requirements. Most goods ordered online can be delivered in a contactless way to your doorstep. Make sure you keep a 2 metre distance from anyone delivering your order. At Alert Level 3, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. Close contact businesses will be open from Alert Level 3, Step 3 — with some restrictions. Advice for close contact businesses at Step 3 Veterinary services can open. If your pet needs to go to the veterinarian, call ahead to book. Do not go to the veterinarian if you are sick or are self-isolating. You must wear a face covering when visiting a veterinary clinic. Businesses offering pet care services such as dog walking or dog grooming can operate but cannot have customers on site. Arrange to drop off and pick up your pet in a contactless way. More information about animal welfare and pet care services at Alert Level 3 | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Plumbers, electricians, and tradespeople can come into your home for repairs. They will need to follow public health guidelines. Home based cleaners can only work to provide support to vulnerable people — for example disabled people or people with a health condition. Rubbish collection will continue. Check with your local council for information about recycling. At Alert Level 4, supermarkets will continue to stay open to allow people to buy food and groceries. Dairies and petrol stations will also remain open. They can sell food and drinks, but it cannot be prepared, packaged or consumed onsite after ordering. For example, petrol stations cannot sell barista coffee, but they can sell hot pre-packaged pies from a warmer. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one-in, one-out" policy. You legally must wear a face covering when going to the supermarket, or visiting any store that is open to customers during Alert Level 4. Liquor stores will close, unless they are within a Licensing Trust Area with a monopoly. Supermarkets will continue to sell wine and beer. Food delivery from supermarkets, bakeries and uncooked food suppliers is allowed at Alert Level 4. This includes supermarket home delivery, uncooked food parcels from charitable organisations and subscription food boxes — for example, My Food Bag or Hello Fresh. You will not be able to get cooked food delivered — unless you have been referred to a cooked food delivery service by the Ministry of Social Development, a District Health Board, or ACC —  for example, Meals on Wheels. Ordering, payment and delivery must be contactless and meet general health guidelines such as physical distancing and hygiene. At Alert Level 4, halal butchers cannot open to customers, but they can sell uncooked food through contactless delivery. At Alert Level 4, greengrocers and fishmongers cannot open to customers, but they can sell uncooked food through contactless delivery. Food banks will continue to operate at Alert Level 4. Food banks must operate a "one-in, one-out" policy. They can sell food prepared on the premises, but you must take it away to eat later. At Alert Level 4, some retail stores can sell essential non-food consumer products. These include items to help you work or study from home, items to help you remain healthy and safe while staying in your bubble — for example, bedding, whiteware or appliances, medicinal and hygiene products and items that help you stay connected with family and whānau. All orders will be contactless, including payment and delivery. Find out more information about essential non-food consumer products (external link) At Alert Level 4, only businesses that are permitted to have customers on their premises can open for click and collect. These include supermarkets, dairies and hardware stores. Hardware stores can open to trade customers only. At Alert Level 4, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. At Alert Level 4, veterinary services can operate but cannot have customers on the premises. If your pet needs to go to the veterinarian, call ahead and arrange a time to drop off and pick up your pet contactlessly. We recommend you wear a face covering when dropping off and picking up your pet. Businesses offering pet care services, such as dog walking or dog grooming, cannot operate. More information about animal welfare and pet care services at Alert Level 4 | mpi.govt.nz (external link) You can have a tradesperson come to your home to do urgent maintenance. The work must be essential to maintaining the necessities of life, or critical to safety. This includes: Non-urgent repairs or maintenance work should be postponed until Alert Level 4 restrictions have lifted. Tradespeople and other workers must wear a face covering when they come into your home. If you do need a tradesperson to visit, you can keep yourself safe by keeping 2 metres away from them, and reducing physical contact by paying for the service online. Home-based cleaners cannot work. Rubbish collection will continue. Check your local authority website for information about recycling. NZ Post will deliver mail and courier drivers will continue to make deliveries. All deliveries will be contactless. Self-service laundries can stay open, but you need to stay 2 metres away from others. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. This means you can continue to drive your vehicle to access essential services. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) If you are sick, or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, you can ask friends, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. You can also use your supermarket's click and collect service, and ask a friend, family member or neighbour to drop off the groceries for you. If you get your groceries delivered, remember to stay 2 metres away from those delivering them, wear a face covering and wash and sanitise your hands after you have put your groceries away. If you are delivering food for a neighbour, friend or family member, remember to stay 2 metres apart and wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. All deliveries must be local and contactless. If you need financial help to buy food, you may be able to get help through Work and Income. You do not need to be on a benefit to get help. Work and Income can help with paying for food, accommodation costs, power and gas bills, heating and medical or dental costs. Last updated: 11 November 2021 at 11:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out the Alert Level for your region You can do your usual sport and recreation activities, and sporting events. There are no limits on the number of people you can exercise with, or limit on the number of spectators at events. All indoor and outdoor recreation facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and skate parks can open. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if you are sick. You can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. Try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if you are sick. You can do activities like: Fishing and boating at Alert Level 2 Using DOC facilities at Alert Level 2 (external link) Public parks and playgrounds are open. Indoor sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, dance studios and health clubs can open, but with extra safety measures. You should wear a face covering whenever possible, but it is not a requirement when exercising and playing sports. Personal trainers and coaches are encouraged to wear a face covering as they are in contact with many people. All workers must keep 2 metres apart from customers and clients using the services. Facilities may restrict numbers to help with physical distancing. You can participate in close-contact sports — for example, boxing, wrestling or martial arts. The person organising the activity needs to make sure they keep a record of all the people participating and spectating. If you are playing a close contact sport, you may want to modify activities or exercises to limit physical contact. Try to keep 2 metres away from others when you are not participating in the sport or activity. Try not to share equipment — for example boxing gloves, hit pats, punching bags. If you do need to share equipment, wash or sanitise it before and after you use it. You do not need to wear a face covering when playing sport. We encourage instructors and trainers to wear one, if possible. Team and community sporting events, including those that take place at an event facility — for example at a stadium or arena, are considered a gathering and the 100-person limit applies. This includes both indoor and outdoor events. If you are organising a sports event, make sure everyone records their visit. You do not need to wear a face covering when participating in team sports. Private social gatherings at Alert Level 2 Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. Elite, professional and semi-professional sporting games can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. There are no restrictions on the number of spectators that can attend a sporting event, for example at a stadium or arena — as long as everyone can safely stay 1 metre apart. Events and entertainment at Alert Level 2 If you are exercising outside, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people who are not in your bubble. Wear a face covering when you are not exercising. Do low-risk activities so you do not need rescuing or medical care. Do not go out to exercise if you have cold or flu symptoms or you have been asked to isolate. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan in and keep a record of where you go. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Fishing and boating at Alert Level 3 You can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. You can drive to a place to exercise — for example, to a park — but you should stay close to where you live. Do not travel too far. Stick to simple outdoor exercise, and avoid activities where you can get injured or lost. For example, do not go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. It is important emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if you are sick. Fishing and boating at Alert Level 4 If you have been asked to self-isolate by public health officials, you cannot leave home to exercise. The people you live with are allowed to leave home to exercise if they do not have any COVID-19 symptoms. Sports and recreation facilities, including playgrounds, are closed. Personal trainers and exercise instructors can offer virtual sessions that can be done from home. Your dog is part of your household bubble. This means your dog should only be walked with people who are in your bubble. Try walking your dog around the block instead of driving to a park. Use a leash so you can keep a safe distance from others. Professional dog walking services cannot operate. We recommend you do not go horse riding to reduce the risk of an accident. If you do need to ride your horse, do it with people from your household bubble, and within the boundaries of the property where it is kept. Do not transport your horse by float to ride somewhere else. You should also use your own grooming kit, tack and other equipment to reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19. You can travel to care for your horse — for example, to provide it with food and water, if there is no alternative and you are complying with any region-specific travel measures. We recommend you carry proof of your reason to travel — for example, documentation showing where the horse is kept. You can travel to look after your bees if your hives are not on the property where you live, and you comply with any region-specific travel measures. Try to limit your travel for urgent welfare reasons — for example, to manage disease. Use your own equipment to reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19. Information about looking after your animals and pets | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 12:00 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out the Alert Level for your region There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a wedding, civil union or reception. Do not go to a wedding or civil union ceremony if you are unwell or have been asked to self-isolate. This includes the couple, attendees, and anyone working or involved in the ceremony or reception.  There are different rules on the number of people who can attend a wedding or civil union ceremony, depending on if the venue is indoors or outdoors. A maximum of 100 people can attend a wedding or civil union ceremony in any indoor or outdoor defined space. Defined spaces (external link) The gathering limits do not include people working at the wedding — for example, servers. If you are serving food or drinks, provide table service if you can. Try to seat extended household bubbles together at one table. Serve food individually if possible so guests do not have to share utensils or plates. People working at a wedding or civil union ceremony must wear a face covering and should try to keep a safe distance from the guests. Guests do not have to wear a face covering, but we encourage everyone to wear one. If you are planning to host a wedding reception or party at a restaurant, pub or other public venue, please follow the establishment’s safety measures. Your guests can dance, sing or perform at the wedding or civil union service. People should try to keep a safe distance from each other. Do not attend a wedding or civil union ceremony if you are feeling unwell. If there are people at the wedding you do not know, make sure you scan the QR code or give your contact details to the organiser. This is to help support contact tracing. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: Keep up good health behaviours like regular handwashing and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. Your host should provide hand sanitiser around the venue and make sure there is plenty of soap available for everyone to wash their hands. Try not to share food or drinks. You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a wedding or civil union. If the wedding or civil union is in an Alert Level 2 region, the gathering limits apply. If you are travelling to an Alert Level 1 region to attend a wedding or civil union, make sure you do it in a safe way. This includes: You can travel into and out of an Alert Level 3 area (in 1 trip) to attend a wedding or civil union service. Your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 3 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 3 guidance. At Alert Level 3, you can get married or attend a wedding or civil union ceremony but these are limited to 10 people. The 10 person limit does not include: This means you can have a total of 15 people at your wedding or civil union ceremony — 10 guests, including the couple getting married and 5 workers. Weddings can be held at an indoor or outdoor venue —  including at a private home. You cannot serve food or drink. If you are attending a wedding or civil union, we recommend you: Do not attend a wedding or civil union if you are unwell. At Step 1, weddings and civil union ceremonies are still limited to 10 people plus 5 staff. You can have a wedding indoors or outdoors, including at a private home. At Step 2, up to 25 people can attend a wedding or civil union ceremony. You can have a total of 30 people at a wedding or civil union — 25 guests and 5 staff. This includes weddings or civil union ceremonies that are held indoors or outdoors, including at a private home. You can serve food or drink but guests must be seated to be served. You can travel to attend a wedding or civil union ceremony in the same or neighbouring region within the Alert Level 3 area. Gathering together for weddings and civil union ceremonies is not allowed at Alert Level 4. We recommend you delay your wedding or civil union ceremony until Alert Level 4 restrictions ease. All venues must have ways for people, including staff and guests, to record their visit. You can do this by displaying a QR code for your venue and asking people to scan in. If your wedding or reception is at a private home, you do not need to keep a record of the people attending if everyone knows each other.  Last updated: 12 October 2021 at 10:59 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. The Government has announced the next stage of the COVID-19 response plan to provide a pathway out of lockdown and give vaccinated New Zealanders more freedom. Learn about the COVID-19 Protection Framework Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. At Alert Level 2 there is a low risk of community transmission. We need your support to protect New Zealand and eliminate COVID-19. At Alert Level 3, there is medium risk of community transmission with active, but managed, clusters. Make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. At Alert Level 4, the virus is not contained and there is sustained and intensive community transmission. Make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. The COVID-19 Protection Framework, also referred to as the traffic light system, sets out our plan to introduce more freedoms and opportunities for all vaccinated New Zealanders. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. COVID-19 Alert Level system tables Likely the disease is not contained. Detailed information about Alert Level 4 Medium risk of community transmission – active but managed clusters. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 Low risk of community transmission within applied area. You legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 and over when: You legally must wear a face covering if you work: Detailed information about Alert Level 2 The disease is contained in New Zealand. You legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 and over when: Detailed information about Alert Level 1 Last updated: 6 October 2021 at 11:54 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 1, the virus is contained in New Zealand. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Businesses can open at Alert Level 1, but you must follow public health rules, including record keeping. Doing business at Alert Level 1 Workplace operations at Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Protect yourself, your whānau and your community. Vaccinations are free and are one of the most powerful tools against COVID-19. If you are aged 12 or over, you can book now. Book your free vaccination now (external link) If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Free support services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week if you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others. Find contacts and support Financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress due to COVID-19. Financial support tool Last updated: 29 August 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 2 there is a low risk of community transmission. We need your support to protect New Zealand and eliminate COVID-19. Parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 2 will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 16 November 2021. The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, except for Auckland. At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. From 11:59pm on Thursday 23 September 2021, most people aged 12 years and older must get a COVID-19 test to cross the boundary for personal movement. Use this simple tool to find out when you must wear a face covering, when to keep your distance from people you do not know, and when to keep a record of where you have been. Businesses can open at Alert Level 2, but you must follow public health rules, including record keeping. All workers should keep at least 1 metre apart, where possible. Some workers must wear a face covering. Doing business at Alert Level 2 Working safely at Alert Level 2 Workplace operations at Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Protect yourself, your whānau and your community. Vaccinations are free and are one of the most powerful tools against COVID-19. If you are aged 12 or over, you can get your vaccination now. Book your free vaccination now If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Free support services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week if you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others. Find contacts and support Financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress due to COVID-19. Financial support tool People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. If you are an at-risk person, you will need to take extra precautions at Alert Level 2. Advice for at-risk people Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 4:08 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 3, there is medium risk of community transmission with active, but managed, clusters. Make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. Auckland is at Alert Level 3 Step 2. Parts of Waikato are at Alert Level 3 Step 2. They will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 16 November 2021. Alert Level 3 advice for Steps 1 to 3 Find out the Alert Level for your region | Alert Level boundary map At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Some business travel is permitted. If you are leaving Auckland, you may need to get a COVID-19 test to cross the boundary for personal travel. There are restrictions on what you can do and where you can go at Alert Level 3. Use this simple tool to find out when you must wear a face covering, when to keep your distance from people you do not know, and when to keep a record of where you have been. At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Doing business at Alert Level 3 Working safely at Alert Level 3 Workplace operations at Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Protect yourself, your whānau and your community. Vaccinations are free and are one of the most powerful tools against COVID-19. If you are aged 12 or over, you can get your vaccination now. Book your free vaccination now If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Free support services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week if you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others. Find contacts and support Financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress due to COVID-19. Financial support tool  You are at high risk if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. Alert Level 3 advice for at-risk people (external link) The Ministry of Health has information for older people and their family and whānau. Advice for older people and their family and whānau | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 4:14 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Some Alert Level 3 restrictions have been eased to allow friends and whānau to reconnect outdoors. Auckland and parts of Waikato are at Step 2. Find out the Alert Level for your region | Alert Level boundary map Restrictions under Alert Level 3 are being eased in 3 steps. This will allow friends and whānau to reconnect with each other and start to enjoy recreation, outings, and shopping at safe limits. Check the Alert Level boundary map to see the boundaries for different regions. Alert Level boundary map There is no region in New Zealand at Step 1 currently. Auckland and parts of Waikato are at Step 2. Alert Level 3 restrictions apply, except for the following situations. Find out what you need to do at Alert Level 3 Auckland Council facilities open at Alert Level 3 Step 2 (external link) At Step 2 many activities cannot go ahead, and some facilities remain closed. Commercial tour or recreational businesses, such as kayak hire or boat tours, should not operate. Learn more about what you must do at Alert Level 3 At Step 3, if the public health assessment tells us it is safe to do so, more restrictions will be eased : The best way for people in Auckland and parts of Waikato to ensure that we can keep easing the restrictions is to get vaccinated and to follow the public health advice: wear a face covering, scan in, and get tested if you have symptoms of COVID 19. As restrictions ease in Auckland and parts of Waikato, more businesses will be able to open. Business operators must follow public health rules, including record keeping and physical distancing where possible. Some workers must wear a face covering. Doing business at Alert Level 3 - Step 1 to 3 Workplace operations at Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Protect yourself, your whānau and your community. Vaccinations are free and are one of the most powerful tools against COVID-19. If you are aged 12 or over, you can get your vaccination now. Book your free vaccination now Walk-in and drive-through vaccinations If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Free support services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week if you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others. Find contacts and support Financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress due to COVID-19. Financial support tool People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. If you are an at-risk person, you will need to take extra precautions. Advice for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 4:13 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 4, the virus is not contained and there is sustained and intensive community transmission. Make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. There are restrictions on what you can do and where you can go at Alert Level 4. Use this simple tool to find out when you must wear a face covering, when to keep your distance from people you do not know, and when to keep a record of where you have been. Business and personal travel within an Alert Level 4 area is limited to essential or permitted movement. Travel across an Alert Level boundary is strictly limited. At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay in our household bubbles. If you or your employees can work from home, they can continue to work at Alert Level 4. If your business provides an Alert Level 4 business or service, then your employees can go into work if they cannot work from home. Doing business at Alert Level 4 Working safely at Alert Level 4 Workplace operations at Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Protect yourself, your whānau and your community. Vaccinations are free and are one of the most powerful tools against COVID-19. If you are aged 12 or over, you can get your vaccination now. Book your free vaccination now (external link) If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Free support services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week if you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others. Find contacts and support (external link) Financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress due to COVID-19. Financial support tool (external link) People at higher risk in particular should stay at home and ask others to pick up supplies for them. You just need to ask them to leave supplies at the door, rather than come in. You are at high risk if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. Alert Level 4 advice for at-risk people The Ministry of Health has updated its information for older people who live alone or in a retirement village on creating a support bubble/buddy at Alert Level 4. Advice for older people and their family and whānau | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 22 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available Last updated 15 November 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Māori communities (external link) (external link) COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Pacific communities (external link) 3,798,124 First dose administered 3,413,839 Second dose administered 90% Eligible population with 1 dose 81% Eligible population with 2 doses Find out how many second doses your DHB needs to get to 90% fully vaccinated. Vaccinations to 90% by DHB Check our vaccinations map to find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand  Last updated 15 November 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. This includes: 90 Cases in hospital 173 New community cases 5,751 Total community cases in current outbreak 0 New cases at the border Last updated 15 November 2021 at 1:00 pm MBIE publishes a daily snapshot of d ata and statistics about MIQ in New Zealand. 188,766 Total number of people through MIQ facilities since 26 March 2020 Last updated 15 November 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on how much people are using the NZ COVID Tracer app. More data is available in your app dashboard. 3,367,029 Registered users 2,354,293 Poster scans in the last 24 hours Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | stats.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports | health.govt.nz (external link) If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you’re a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 1:58 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated. This map shows the vaccination rates for small areas of New Zealand. Enter your address to see the proportion of people who have received their first or second dose in your area, compared with the national average. National comparison Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Map key  Map key Data source: Ministry of Health (external link)  Note that the New Zealand doses to 90% may not be a sum of the rows above. This is because any DHBs that exceed 90% will contribute additional doses to the national total, offsetting the doses required in other DHBs. First/second doses % are the number of first/second doses administered divided by the eligible population. First/second doses to 90% are the number of doses required to reach 90% of the eligible population. For these two measures, the national total may not be the sum of DHB measures. Data in this table is as at 11:59pm 14 November 2021. Source: Ministry of Health COVID-19: vaccine data | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 1:58 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government has announced the next stage of the COVID-19 response plan to provide a pathway out of lockdown and give vaccinated New Zealanders more freedom. Vaccinations have the power to change the way Aotearoa manages the virus, and give us more possibilities. The COVID-19 Protection Framework brings us a world where we are freer to move and live with less disruption and offers the stability businesses need to plan for the future. Once 90% of eligible New Zealanders are fully vaccinated and protected, it will be safe to introduce this new framework that does not rely on lockdowns as the main measure to stop the virus spreading. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern shares a plan with all New Zealanders that will help us stay safe from COVID-19 into the future.  The COVID-19 Protection Framework introduces a new flexible 3-level approach to managing COVID-19 in the community: The framework is more flexible than the current Alert Level system because we know that businesses that only open to vaccinated customers pose a lower risk. We can move up levels when needed to control an outbreak. Testing, contact tracing and isolation will continue as key tools to minimise any spread of the virus. Localised lockdowns will still be an option if we see a rapid growth in cases. There may still be a need to use wider lockdowns, similar to the measures in Alert Level 3 or 4. To shift between levels, we will consider: More information will be released in late November. Requiring a vaccination certificate will be optional for many locations. There will be some higher-risk settings where they will be a requirement in order to open to the public. At all levels, businesses, retail, and public facilities will generally be able to remain open for vaccinated people. Businesses, events, organisations, community, and a range of sectors may legally choose to implement a vaccination entry requirement for customers. If a business, organisation or service does not wish to request proof of vaccine, they will have to operate with strict limits on capacity and space requirements. They may need to close in Orange and/or Red levels. Green is when there are some COVID-19 cases in the community, and sporadic imported cases. Community transmission will be limited and COVID-19 hospitalisations will be at a manageable level. The health system will be ready to respond, including primary care, public health, and hospitals. At Orange , there will be increasing community transmission that is putting pressure on our health system. The whole of health system will focus its resources, but can continue to manage primary care, public health, and hospitals. There may also be an increasing risk for at-risk people. At Red , action will need to be taken to protect both at-risk people and protect our health system from an unsustainable number of hospitalisations. To enjoy the full life everyone in New Zealand deserves, get vaccinated today. If you are already vaccinated, do your best to help your friends and family get their vaccinations so we can all enjoy life within the new system sooner.  If you have had your first or second dose of the vaccine, now is the time to make sure your vaccination details are accurate Go to My Covid Record now to confirm your vaccination information is correct. Businesses, events, organisations, community, and a range of sectors may legally choose to implement a vaccination entry requirement for customers. Businesses offering essential services, including supermarkets and pharmacies, will not be allowed to introduce vaccination status certificate requirements. We want to help protect workplaces and workers from COVID-19. We are mandating vaccination for workers at businesses where customers need to show COVID-19 vaccination certificates to make those workplaces as safe as possible and give confidence to staff and customers. A new interactive vaccination map allows you to keep track of the vaccination rates across New Zealand. You can see the proportion of people who have received their first or second dose, and compare your area with others in New Zealand. Search your address or check the map to find your area. Soon we will be on a pathway to reopening our borders and reconnecting people and businesses with the world. We will take a cautious approach to reopening. High vaccination levels mean we will not have to rely so much on a tight border to keep cases out. In the future, vaccinated travellers who have tested negative for COVID-19 will be able to have a shorter stay in MIQ, as well as options for isolating at their home. Last updated: 1 November 2021 at 2:28 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take.  Auckland and parts of Waikato are at Alert Level 3 Step 2. Settings for Auckland will be reviewed on Monday 22 November 2021. Parts of Waikato will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 16 November 2021. Alert Level 3 Step 2 advice Alert Level 2 Find out the Alert Level for your region Upper Northland is now at Alert Level 2. The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. What to do at Alert Level 2 It is OK to ask for help. Contact a helpline when you need support. Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot and report misinformation. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline about getting tested. Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community.  At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2.  The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm.  Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: Last updated: 11 November 2021 at 11:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by a diverse range of perspectives, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet has convened the Community Panel. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The purpose of the group is to provide advice to the Minister for the COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. The Group could; Terms of Reference define the purpose and scope for the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] The group has proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Read the latest reports Last updated: 30 July 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review and Improvement and Advice Group (CICRIAG) has conducted a review of the Auckland February 2021 Outbreak. They have proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. A number of agencies have already begun their own work to consolidate recommendations from a range of reviews. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group are coordinating with agencies to build a complete system-view of these recommendations and progress against recommended improvements. A full stocktake of recommendations has been undertaken, along with the status of those recommendations.  Accountabilities for recommendations will sit with appropriate agencies, and progress will be monitored by the COVID-19 Group. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Recommendations have been grouped into themes to provide reporting on the system trends. 10 themes have been workshopped and developed by a group of representatives from key agencies/groups involved across the COVID-19 Response system. These themes are: Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Community Panel was established in July 2021 by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to provide insights across the COVID-19 system direct from communities. The Panel brings lived experiences and deep community ties to provide a diverse range of perspectives on different aspects of the COVID-19 response and to help ensure issues such as equity are addressed. The Panel members represent communities such as rural, youth/aged, disabled, Māori, Pacific, LGBTQ+ and other ethnic groups. Their expertise will help shape the medium- to long-term COVID-19 strategy. Members were chosen after consultation with other government agencies to ensure strong cross-agency collaboration.  The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Community Panel. Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB]  When information is proactively released about the Community Panel, it will be available on this page. Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 3:44 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The purpose of the group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. Read Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] The group has provided Hon Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health (Public Health), their advice about the future of the elimination strategy and the phased re-opening of borders. Read the group's advice to Minister Verrall [PDF, 312 KB] Published at 5am on Wednesday 11 August 2021. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1-10 of 675 updates 15 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 15 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Nov 2021 There are four new COVID-19 community cases to report across the Tararua and Lakes districts. 14 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 Nov 2021 In addition to today’s 1pm COVID-19 statement, the Ministry is providing the following update. 13 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Nov 2021 The Ministry of Health is reporting six people with COVID-19 in the Taranaki town of Stratford, including one in hospital. 11 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 10 Nov 2021 Auckland and Waikato students in Years 1 to 10 can return to face-to-face learning at schools and kura from 17 November. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. This is a key milestone on the path to Auckland opening up. Auckland DHB is at 95% first doses and 87% second doses. Waitematā DHB is 92% first doses and 83% second doses. Counties Manukau is now at 90% first doses and 80% second doses. Auckland will move across into the new traffic light system with fewer restrictions once all three DHBs have reached 90% fully vaccinated. Auckland is leading the way with vaccinations, and it is exciting to see Counties Manukau reach that all important 90% first dose figure. Today we are an important step closer to Auckland transitioning to the new traffic light system which means restrictions will ease once each DHB is 90% second dose. There’s been a huge amount of targeted work going on by local health providers to make vaccines easily accessible and to address hesitancy. It’s really pleasing to see that work paying off. In particular the work of Māori and Pacific providers in Counties Manukau is succeeding. Getting to 90% first doses required pulling out all the stops in Auckland. This has included literally going door to door to ensure people are vaccinated. Getting every DHB in Auckland up to 90% fully vaccinated is within our reach. On current daily rates we could be there within three weeks so long as people return for their second dose. Everyone wants restrictions eased as soon as possible. We need to keep going and get those final second doses so we can ease restrictions with high rates of vaccination and high levels of confidence.  Last updated: 8 November 2021 at 6:43 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. This purchase agreement will ensure that New Zealand has a continual supply of Pfizer vaccines throughout 2022. These vaccines will be provided to those who didn’t access a vaccine in 2021 — for example, people turning 12 next year — be used if the eligibility is extended to younger age groups, and for a potential booster programme if the evidence determines this is required and if Medsafe grants approval. New Zealand is also committed to supporting its Pacific neighbours with their COVID-19 response, including vaccine supply. New Zealand has access to a total of 10.88 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine in 2021. The additional agreement for 4.7 million doses will be delivered throughout 2022. Further announcements on use of these vaccines will be made in due course. The Pfizer vaccine is being rolled out right across New Zealand, including to our hard to reach and rural areas. We are continuing to focus on reaching at least 90% vaccination rates across all DHBs. We have the ability to deliver vaccines right across Aotearoa New Zealand, quickly and efficiently, and there is enough vaccines right now for every eligible person to be fully vaccinated. Last updated: 3 November 2021 at 4:10 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Lockdowns can be stressful for children and young people, so returning to some on-site learning will mean they can reconnect with their teacher and friends. Starting this month will provide certainty ahead of the Christmas break and before the new school year starts. Public health advice supports a return to onsite learning. Measures to help minimise the risk of COVID-19 will include mask wearing from Year 4 up in most cases, ventilating classrooms, limiting the number of students on site, and making sure groups of children distance from each other. Each school and kura will decide what works best for their learners and their community. That might be by alternating days or half weeks – through year levels, or through whānau groupings. Full-time learning will continue on-site for students whose parents have needed it, for example to go to work. Thank you to those who have engaged with us on this over the past fortnight, we appreciate your feedback and have taken on board that you wanted a few extra days preparation time, and for all students not to come back at once. The health advice also tells us that in other countries, out-of-school activities create a greater risk of transmission than what happens at places of learning. It is clear that the risk of reopening schools is outweighed by the benefits of kids re-engaging with their learning face-to-face in this context. While most students in Years 1 to 8 will be returning part-time, Years 9 and 10 will be able to return full time alongside those already back at high schools in Years 11 to 13. With really strong vaccination rates, the balance of risk has shifted. As vaccinations rates increase, including the requirement for teachers to have at least one COVID-19 vaccination from Monday, the risk to children and students is lowered. Students in Years 11 to 13 have been back at school at Level 3 full-time for some weeks now to help re-engage in their learning, and prepare for exams. Parents, caregivers and teachers have been doing an incredible job helping children to adapt and learn online. We thank them for that and acknowledge those school leaders and teachers who will be working hard from here to prepare for hybrid learning from 17 November. Last updated: 10 November 2021 at 1:29 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Medsafe has already approved use of Pfizer as a booster for people who are 18 years or older. Following further advice to Cabinet from the vaccine technical advisory group, the vaccination programme will start administering booster doses from 29 November. Vaccination is the best protection against COVID-19. Booster doses will be available free for anyone in New Zealand aged 18 or older who has completed their 2 dose course more than six months ago. People will be able to access boosters in New Zealand, whether they received their earlier doses here or overseas. The Pfizer vaccine will be used for boosters, regardless of which vaccine was used for earlier doses. It is the same Pfizer vaccine used for the first 2 doses in the vaccination rollout. While most other countries are rationing boosters to certain groups, we have made the decision to make boosters available to everyone. That ensures simplicity and equity. People are eligible to take up the offer of a booster once 6 months have passed since their second dose, but there is no need to rush to get the booster. The science shows fully vaccinated people remain really well protected from infection, and from being seriously ill if they do get COVID-19. Our healthcare and border workers are a priority group for booster vaccine doses because they are on the front line against COVID-19 and because large numbers of them completed their vaccine course 6 months or longer ago. We will also be making sure older people including people in residential care have good access to booster doses when they become eligible. We are particularly keen to make sure those groups are aware that the booster programme is about to kick off, and that they are eligible. There are currently 144,000 people in New Zealand who have been vaccinated for 6 months and 455,847 who will be by the end of the year. Boosters will also support the Protection Framework when this replaces the Alert Level system. Combining the Protection Framework with the booster programme will reduce the risk of severe disease caused by COVID-19, reduce the burden on hospitals and other healthcare providers, and protect those at high occupational risk of exposure. It will give us even greater confidence that, as we transition to a world where we are freer to move, live and work with less disruption, we can remain protected from Delta. We also need to remember to keep on with the other simple steps for staying safe, such as distancing, using face coverings, scanning and staying at home if sick. The booster programme is an exciting next step in our pandemic response, increasing the vaccination coverage of first and second doses, particularly for Māori and Pacific people, remains the Government’s priority in our nationwide vaccination rollout. Please encourage your whānau and friends to get vaccinated. Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 4:38 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are 162 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 November 2021 at 10:11 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 11 August media conference Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Watch the COVID-19 media conference held by government officials and ministers at 4pm. Speakers: Transcript of the 4pm media conference The COVID-19 media conference was held at 10:30am. Speakers: Transcript of the 10:30am media conference Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference with ministers was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 13 August media conference Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the Prime Minister's 5:30pm media conference [PDF, 275 KB] (external link) The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 14 August 1pm media conference [PDF, 194 KB] (external link) Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 15 August media conference [PDF, 178 KB] (external link) Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 3:35 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Last updated: 3 November 2021 at 9:06 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference here. There are 79 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 26 October 2021 at 4:08 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are 74 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 27 October 2021 at 3:39 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are 89 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 29 October 2021 at 10:09 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the livestream. There were 28,921 vaccines administered yesterday, including: To date, 88% of New Zealanders have had their first dose and 76% are fully vaccinated. Getting vaccinated will help to stop people from becoming seriously ill from COVID-19 and will save lives. Update on cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 3 November 2021 at 1:21 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: There were 26,058 vaccines administered yesterday, including: To date, 89% of New Zealanders have had their first dose and 77% are fully vaccinated. Getting vaccinated will help to stop people from becoming seriously ill from COVID-19 and will save lives. There are 69 cases in hospital. There are 163 new community cases of COVID-19: Update on cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 5 November 2021 at 1:33 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers:  Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: There were 22,178 first and second COVID-19 vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of 5,103 first doses and 16,089 second doses. To date, 89% of eligible New Zealanders aged 12 and over have had their first dose and 79% are fully vaccinated. There are 147 community cases in the community today: The rolling 7-day average for community cases is 154. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health is today sadly reporting the sudden death of a man in his 60s who had COVID-19 and was isolating at a home in Glen Eden. The cause of his death will be determined by the coroner, including whether it may have been COVID-19 related. Any deaths which might be COVID-19 related are fully investigated, whether they occur at home or in a hospital setting. Our thoughts are with this man’s whānau and friends at this stressful time. This is a sad reminder that COVID-19 is potentially very serious – and fatal – if you’re not vaccinated. This man’s death is not included in today’s numbers. Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 9:57 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Last updated: 8 November 2021 at 3:35 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Waikato will move to Alert Level 3, Step 2 on Tuesday 2 November at 11:59pm, meaning outdoor gatherings can increase to 25 and public facilities, such as libraries and zoos, and retail can open with mask-wearing, contact tracing and physical distancing. High vaccination rates mean we can move forward with confidence, but public health measures remain extremely important as we ease restrictions. Cabinet has agreed in-principle to a shift down for Auckland to these same settings next Tuesday 9 November at 11:59pm. Vaccination rates are climbing steadily, with fewer than 5000 doses to go before 90 percent of people have had their first dose. The latest numbers also show that 80 percent of Auckland’s eligible population are now doubled vaccinated. These rates offer us greater protection now, even as we continue to work to ensure every single person who can be, is vaccinated. The public advice received by the Government is that opening up retail doesn’t lead to a marked increase of cases. The risk of transmission is also substantially lowered when people gather outside, are socially distanced and wear masks. Cabinet has carefully balanced the ongoing need to minimise cases against the pressure and fatigue of ongoing restrictions on Aucklanders. The best way to ease restrictions safely is to have high vaccination rates, which is why a further week has been built in today to allow even more people to get vaccinated and allow the reopening of schools for senior students to bed in. Last updated: 1 November 2021 at 5:41 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry is this evening confirming positive results for two household contacts of the Taupō case announced earlier today. We are also confirming a fourth positive result in Taupō, in a close contact of the case. These results are not unexpected among household and other close contacts. Two other household contacts of the case have tested negative. Public health staff at Toi Te Ora are continuing to interview the initial case and their contacts. As a result of those interviews, it’s understood that the case and a close contact (who is now isolating in Taupō) travelled to Masterton last weekend, before the person became symptomatic on Monday.  At this time, the Ministry has identified four locations of interest in Masterton and four in Taupō linked to these cases.  Anyone who visited those locations on the same day at the relevant times should get a test if they’re feeling unwell. These Locations of Interest will be available on the Ministry of Health’s website from 8 o’clock tonight and will be regularly updated from tomorrow if and when additional locations are identified. Locations of interest | Health.govt.nz (external link) If you’ve been to a location of interest in Wairarapa or in Taupō, please get tested. If you haven’t been to the locations at those times, but you do have symptoms of COVID-19, no matter how mild, please get a test. Wairarapa DHB has advised it will have drive-through testing available at the following site: The DHB has informed the Ministry that there is plenty of capacity at the site. Lakes DHB has advised testing will be available at the follow sites: Please check the Wairarapa DHB’s website for weekday vaccination sites Vaccination centres in the Wairarapa (external link) If you’re in these locations and begin to feel unwell overnight and notice a change in symptoms, please do not hesitate to call 111 or Healthline on 0800 358 5453. ESR has notified the Ministry of positive wastewater detections of the COVID-19 virus in Tauranga on 11 November and Mount Maunganui on 10 November and 11 November. Bay of Plenty DHB has advised it will have a number of testing and vaccination sites available tomorrow.  Please check the  for testing site details. Testing cites in Tauranga | Healthpoint.co.nz (external link) The Ministry’s next update will be at 1pm on Sunday. Last updated: 13 November 2021 at 8:18 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. "Because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public, with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. I require the following people to do 2 things. This direction applies to the following people: If you need advice accessing financial assistance while you have been directed to isolate at home you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009." Given at Wellington at 1pm Wednesday 12 August 2020 Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director-General of Health Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A new Vaccine Uptake Fund to support COVID-19 vaccination among ethnic communities will help further increase vaccinations across Aotearoa. Communities have told us that being able to provide things like transport, interpreters, collateral and venue hire would make a real difference. This new Vaccine Uptake Fund will pay for this sort of activity and make it easier for people to get vaccinated. The new $1 million Vaccine Uptake Fund is in addition to the $2 million for the Ethnic Communities Communications Fund which supported 71 initiatives across a broad range of communities throughout the country. The Ethnic Communities Communications Fund had a huge response, and as a result the funding was doubled from $1 million to $2 million to help boost vaccination rates among our ethnic communities. Successful initiatives focused on translation services, educational and community wellbeing. The initiatives will support doctors, medical professionals, respected community, youth, and faith-based leaders from a range of ethnic communities to engage through online community health forums, educational workshops, videos, and social media platforms focused on the vaccination journey. Misinformation about vaccines from other countries is an issue for some ethnic communities and will be addressed through initiatives using community forums, videos, social media platforms and radio broadcasts. New Zealand is a diverse country with over 213 ethnic communities represented who collectively speak over 160 languages, have varied needs, and may access information differently. Ethnic community organisations understand these diverse needs and are best placed to reach those who need a little additional support to get vaccinated. These two funds are and will continue to support them to be able to do this effectively. Funding for both funds has been provided by the Ministry of Health and was set up in partnership with the Ministry for Ethnic Communities. Community organisations and individuals can apply for funding now at the Ministry for Ethnic Communities website. Ethnic communities COVID-19 vaccine uptake fund | Ministry for Ethnic Communities (external link) Last updated: 28 October 2021 at 3:13 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government is starting a phased easing of border restrictions that will see the time spent in an MIQ facility halved for overseas arrivals from 14 November and home isolation introduced in the first quarter of 2022 at the latest. It is also expanding one-way quarantine free travel with some Pacific nations in the first step in the Government’s phased plan to carefully reconnect New Zealand with the world. MIQ has served us well. Over 183,000 New Zealanders have returned home through MIQ since border restrictions were put in place last year, stopping cases at the border and allowing us to live life free of restrictions for the better part of 18 months. When MIQ was introduced we did not have the vaccine so every arrival posed a high level of risk. With most people returning now fully vaccinated the risk profile of international arrivals has changed so it is time to start changing our MIQ settings. Last week the Government announced a pathway forward out of lockdowns with the new traffic light COVID-19 Protection Framework that will see an easing of restrictions once the country is 90 percent vaccinated. Today’s easing of MIQ requirements is part of our broader plan to re-open New Zealand safely and reconnect with the world. The first change we are making is halving the length of time international arrivals will need to stay in MIQ to 7 days. Advice is this is the lowest risk change as the vast majority of border cases we pick up within the first 7 days. The vast majority of COVID-19 cases are picked up within the first 3 days of MIQ. Positive cases from border arrivals are increasingly rare, at 2 or 3 per 1000, and there is a 1 in 2000 rate of positive test results in MIQ after day 7. In addition, full vaccination will be required for all non-New Zealand travellers from 1 November. Arrivals will be tested on day 0/1, day 3, and day 6/7 testing, followed by a short period of self-isolation at home – around 3 days. A rapid antigen test and health checks will be carried out on day 7 before a person leaves MIQ, and people will get a PCR test on day 9 of their home isolation and stay at home until the result comes back. This evolution of MIQ will initially free up more than 1500 rooms a month. These spaces will enable 2 things; they will allow rooms to continue to support the Auckland outbreak and some additional rooms will be available and will add to the vouchers being released next week. Shortened stays in MIQ were part of our international reconnecting plan announced shortly prior to the Auckland Delta outbreak. The move to ensure returnees are vaccinated and additional data on Delta have enabled these changes to be bought forward. The second stage of our plan will see New Zealand moving towards having more vaccinated people able to self-isolate at home instead of in MIQ. This option will be made available to increasing numbers of fully vaccinated travellers in the first quarter of 2022. However our priority at this stage is to safely transition to the new traffic light system first and bed that in before adding the additional risk of international arrivals immediately entering the community. When the COVID-19 Protection Framework is bedded in, 90 per cent of eligible New Zealanders will be fully vaccinated so we will have a higher level of confidence than we do right now of allowing international arrivals to go straight into the community. A phased approach also gives us time to evaluate the technology that will be used to monitor home isolation compliance in the business home isolation pilot, which starts at the end of this month. Fees, exemption and exception frameworks and isolate at home guidelines will be updated during the next three weeks. From 14 November, the self-isolation period for business travellers in the pilot will also be shortened to 10 days. We are also expanding one-way quarantine free travel from Samoa, Tonga and Vanuatu to include travellers from those countries and Tokelau who have the right to reside permanently in New Zealand and people covered by border exceptions, from 8 November. Travellers must be fully vaccinated, unless they are New Zealand citizens. RSE workers are currently required to have at least one dose, and will be required to be fully vaccinated from 1 January 2022. Due to the low risk in these countries, travellers will not need to provide a negative test before leaving or isolate on arrival in New Zealand. Standard QFT requirements will remain in place – that is, the requirement for passengers to confirm they meet health and eligibility requirements, and to complete Nau Mai Rā. The full list of requirements will be on the Unite Against COVID-19 website. “I thank the governments of these countries for their cooperation, which has led to us reaching this positive step in reconnecting our people, and the horticulture industry for the initial successful trial of QFT with Tonga, Samoa and Vanuatu," said Minister Chris Hipkins. The existing quarantine free travel arrangements with the Cook Islands and Niue will be maintained. The COVID-19 situation continues to evolve rapidly, both here and abroad. We need to move quickly to make sure we are minimising the risks we face in the best way possible. We will, as we always have, step through these changes carefully. Last updated: 5 November 2021 at 4:02 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The two Lakes district cases were detected after a person sought care at Rotorua Hospital for a non-COVID health matter and subsequently returned a positive test result. The person was not in contact with any other patients as they were placed in a room set aside for possible COVID-19 cases. The person was managed with appropriate infection prevention protocols. Two healthcare workers involved have also been tested and are now isolating. The second case is a household contact of the first. Based on current information there is a link to cases in Auckland. In addition, two cases have been reported overnight in the Tararua district, covered by MidCentral DHB. Both cases reported feeling unwell on Friday 12 November, sought prompt testing and are now self-isolating at home. The cases are linked and the local Public Health Unit is still investigating any links between these cases and other known cases. Contact tracing is underway for all four of these cases and locations of interest will be added to the Ministry of Health’s website when they become available. Anyone living in these areas or any recent visitors with COVID-19 related symptoms, no matter how mild, should get tested. Additional testing stations may be set-up throughout the day. Please check Healthpoint for Lakes District and for Tararua District details. Testing centres | Healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Last updated: 14 November 2021 at 12:33 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A new tool that supports disabled people to get vaccinated against COVID-19 was launched today as the country gets closer to reaching the 90% vaccination milestone. The Manaakitanga Journey is a graphic online tool that packages up key information on the Unite Against COVID-19 website such as how to book New Zealand Sign Language interpreters at clinics, and how to arrange transport to and from your vaccination appointment. Getting a vaccination is the best thing you can do to protect yourself and your community – and we want all New Zealanders to have the right support to get the job done. That is why we have been working with the disability sector and community, Office for Disability Issues, the Ministry of Health and DHBs to develop services and information that ensures disabled people are aware of their eligibility in the vaccine programme. Deciding whether to be vaccinated, finding the most appropriate site and place to be vaccinated at and who to contact if you need transport, are all key parts of the journey that can often affect disabled people’s experiences. This makes that process easier. One in 4 New Zealanders identify as disabled or having an impairment. As of 27 October, of the 30,522 people supported by the Ministry of Health’s Disability Supports Services nationwide, 82% have had their first dose, and 67% have been fully vaccinated. The vaccination programme aims to be inclusive and accessible to all New Zealanders so that all people have the opportunity and access to a vaccination site. DHBs and local providers are really committed to getting it right for disabled people to ensure they can access the vaccine in a way that meets their needs in their local area. We are continuing that momentum with the launch of a disability-specific part of the Unite Against COVID-19 website, which will be updated weekly with Super Accessible sites and centres for disabled people to get vaccinated at across the motu. The Unite Against COVID-19 website will also contain consolidated information specifically for disabled people and those who have underlying health conditions, such as supported decision making, a list of accessible vaccination centres near you, arranging transport and information in alternative formats. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern will visit the Hutt Valley COVID-19 Community Vaccination Centre at 1:30pm today, to support their work as a super accessible clinic for disabled New Zealanders. Support for disabled people Last updated: 28 October 2021 at 2:55 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government is introducing a range of measures to help protect workplaces and workers from COVID-19. We have heard the calls from employers and employees to provide certainty on what roles need to be done by vaccinated workers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework. We are mandating vaccination for workers at businesses where customers need to show COVID-19 Vaccination Certificates to make those workplaces as safe as possible and give confidence to staff and customers. The timing of this coming into force will depend on when we move to the COVID-19 Protection Framework. We’re working with the CTU and BusinessNZ to make sure we will have robust guidance for businesses ready well in advance. A number of businesses have already gone through a risk assessment process to mandate vaccinations at their workplace, but we’ve had calls from both businesses and unions to make this process as clear as possible. That is why we will introduce a risk assessment process in law for employers to follow when deciding whether they can require vaccination for different types of work. We know though that many businesses and employers who are not covered by vaccine certificates want greater clarity on whether they can mandate vaccines. This process will provide businesses with a clear and simplified legal framework to make decisions about requiring staff to be vaccinated or not. This risk assessment will build on the guidance provided by WorkSafe, with input from public health officials, business representatives and unions. It will cover factors like whether a workplace involves interaction with customers. This new process won’t override risk assessments that businesses have already done under the existing health and safety guidelines. We know that these changes raise questions around what happens when mandated employees refuse to get vaccinated. To provide clarity, a new 4-week notice period will apply if their employment is terminated if they choose not to be vaccinated and their work requires it. Our law change will require a minimum of 4 weeks’ paid notice for any employee who loses their job because they are not vaccinated. This change will only apply to employees who do not have a notice period, or whose notice periods are shorter than 4 weeks. Most employees will have notice periods in their employment agreement. Employers will also be required to keep records about workers’ vaccination status. MBIE will work with the Office of the Privacy Commissioner to provide practical guidance on how to ensure workers’ records are handled appropriately. We understand the urgency and we expect these changes to be in place to align with the COVID-19 Protection Framework coming into force. We will pass this legislation as a priority to give workplaces the certainty they need, because vaccination is one of the best tools to reduce the risk of COVID-19 spreading. Last updated: 26 October 2021 at 4:51 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. This follows the introduction of rapid antigen testing at Middlemore Hospital. It will start within the next few days at Auckland City and North Shore hospitals, and be used as a point-of-arrival test in the self-isolation pilots in Auckland and Christchurch from 30 October to Wednesday 8 December 2021, with final travellers exiting self-isolation on 22 December 2021. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have used a range of methods to contain and control the virus to protect New Zealanders and their livelihoods. As more people gain protection through vaccinations, our tool box is changing. Testing is critical in identifying cases quickly and responding effectively to any outbreaks, and we want to harness testing innovation amongst the business community to boost our public health response. The Ministry of Business Innovation and Employment (MBIE) is working closely with the business community and the Ministry of Health, to support and accelerate additional levels of testing for New Zealand workers. The Government has been in talks with business leaders, and will meet with them tomorrow to discuss the next steps for safely incorporating rapid antigen testing into our COVID-19 response. While this technology provides a result quickly, rapid antigen testing tends to be less sensitive at detecting cases, especially in asymptomatic people or those who are either very early in or towards the end of their infectious period. That’s why we must ensure a robust system is in place so we don’t miss cases. Anyone who tests positive will be verified with further testing and managed appropriately — including being linked with healthcare. Today the Government is also releasing a review into its Covid-19 testing, carried out by the Ministry of Health COVID-19 Testing Technical Advisory Group (TAG). We want to ensure our COVID-19 testing has adapted and evolved to support New Zealand’s pandemic response and reconnection plan. We asked Professor David Murdoch and his team to review the coordination of COVID-19 testing, and the processes by which tests and testing innovations are assessed and adopted. We also asked them to identify opportunities to ensure ongoing sustainable and fit-for-purpose Covid-19 testing within New Zealand. One of the key themes in their report is how we adopt and use testing innovations. Recommendations from the rapid review include a future-focused COVID-19 testing strategy to assist planning, and the creation of a dedicated testing approach to facilitate innovation and the implementation of new tests and testing strategies in a timely way. Work is already underway within the Ministry of Health to consider how rapid antigen testing can best be used to identify new infections, support outbreak investigations through screening, and monitor disease trends. Rapid antigen testing is in use in four approved health programmes, to assess their suitability in the context of New Zealand’s COVID-19 prevalence. Auckland hospitals in areas deemed as ‘high-risk’ settings are using this technology to: Our priority is to safeguard the health and wellbeing of all New Zealanders. We are committed to engaging and working constructively with businesses and communities as part of our ongoing COVID-19 response. Last updated: 7 October 2021 at 2:55 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. From Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Kia ora koutou katoa Today I’m speaking directly to all New Zealanders to share a plan that will help us stay safe from COVID-19 into the future. A future where we want to continue to protect people’s lives, but also to live our lives – as safely as possible. Our announcements today are in three parts. I will start by setting out the new framework we will use to help us minimise the impact of COVID, and protect ourselves. The second part is the economic support package we will use to especially support Auckland businesses as we transition. Minister Robertson will speak to that. Minister Sepuloni has also today set out an extension to our hardship assistance package for families on low incomes. And finally, given the importance of high vaccine rates across all communities, Minister Henare will set out a plan to accelerate Maōri vaccination rates. In March last year, when I announced our alert level system, I said that the world had changed, and quickly. But we carved our own path then, and now, we can do that again. Our focus on elimination kept us free from COVID for much of the past 18 months at a time when our population was vulnerable to this virus. It kept our case numbers low, and our hospitals from being swamped. Our economy held up well and unemployment stayed low. We can be rightfully proud of what our world-leading response has achieved. But two things have changed since then. The first, is that Delta has made it very hard to maintain our elimination strategy. Its tentacles have reached into our communities and made it hard to shake, even using the best public health measures and the toughest restrictions we had available to us. But right as our longstanding strategy was challenged, we also had a new tool. One that means as COVID has changed, we could change too. And rather than being locked down, we can move forward safely and with confidence. That tool is the vaccine. The vaccine we are using in New Zealand is safe and effective. If you are vaccinated it means that you are less likely to catch the virus, and much less likely to end up in hospital if you do. It also helps protect everyone. The more people who are vaccinated, the harder it is for COVID to spread through communities quickly, and find our most vulnerable. That means while we used to say that we needed to stay home to save lives, we now need to be vaccinated to save lives. And this is where New Zealand has the chance to continue to carve our own path. Very few countries have had the opportunity to vaccinate people BEFORE Covid was in every corner of their communities. We can. Once we have done that, we then need to make sure we keep using that tool to protect ourselves as we gradually and carefully open up. Not all countries have had that chance. And some, have opened up with vaccines very quickly, or without any other public health measures in place. Our plan will do things differently. That’s because our goal, based on the advice of Professor David Skegg and the Public Health Advisory group, is to minimise and protect. Minimisation means that we are aiming to keep the spread of COVID-19 as low as possible. That while there will be some level of cases in the community on an ongoing basis, we will work to contain and control any outbreaks, and if practical to do so, stamp them out. Protection means that we won’t just treat COVID like a seasonal illness. We will protect people from it with vaccination, management, and a response that focusses on minimising the significant health impacts we know it can have. But, how will we make our strategy to minimise COVID and protect people work, while also making sure that we keep moving forward? The first step is with high vaccination rates. You’ll know that we have been resistant to setting a target. We didn’t want to leave anyone behind. And we still don’t. But we need to give everyone, and especially Aucklanders, certainty over when it will be safe enough to transition to a new system. One where we give more freedoms to those who are vaccinated. We have looked at all of the evidence, talked to experts, looked at modelling for our situation, and set a target of 90 percent fully vaccinated for each DHB in New Zealand. The reason we have focused on each DHB, is because we need every region to be highly vaccinated. And by focusing on DHBs, we also make sure we get more equitable outcomes. And when every DHB reaches this target that is when we will move into a new framework called the COVID-19 Protection Framework. Let me tell you how this new system will work. Similar to our current alert level system, there will be three settings Green, orange and red. They’re designed to help us manage outbreaks and cases. While you could have cases in the community at any of the different settings, we can use them to try and get numbers down if they’re affecting people’s safety and our health system. There are three big differences between this new system, and our current one. The first, is that it uses vaccine certificates. Basically, if you want to be guaranteed that no matter the setting you can go to bars, restaurants, close proximity businesses like a hairdresser – you’ll need to be vaccinated. The second difference is that with vaccine certificates, at red, orange and green businesses will be able to continue to open and operate. This I know is the certainty that many have been looking for. And the third major difference, is that rather than use general nationwide lockdowns, if we have cases that start to climb and are in areas where we have lower vaccination rates for vulnerable communities, we can use more highly targeted and very localised lockdowns if we need to. Let me give you then a very quick run-through of each of the settings. The red setting is what we’ll use when the virus is spreading in a way that means we need to take action to protect our most vulnerable and prevent too much pressure on our health system. So here, while hospitality is open with vaccine certificates, and retail is also open with the usual public health measures, gathering limits and physical distancing will also be required. Education will be open but with public health measures in place. Working from home is encouraged. Masks will also be required in the same way we use them now. This will still feel like a huge amount of freedom relative to what Auckland has now.  And because they have done so much work to lift their vaccination rates, and because of the border around the city – rather than wait for the rest of New Zealand, Auckland will move into Red as soon as all three of the Auckland DHBs hit the 90 percent double vaccination target. To everyone in Auckland, our businesses, people on their own, families with young kids – everyone, I know this period has been so hard. But you are so close. Right now you are just 16,000 vaccines away from every DHB hitting the 90 percent target for first doses. When that turns into double doses, that’s when this new framework kicks in. And I know that vaccination certificates will help us get those numbers up. For the rest of the country, once every DHB hits 90 percent double vaccinated we anticipate we will move collectively, together, to orange. At orange – everything remains open, but because of vaccine certificates, all of the gathering limits currently in place for events, gatherings or hospitality can lift. Places that choose not to use vaccine certificates will either be closed or will have public health measures in place. Green is when there is some COVID in the community but at low levels. Fully vaccinated people can enjoy all events and hospitality and gatherings by showing a vaccine certificate. Where premises choose not to use vaccine certificates they will face restrictions on numbers and spacing similar to the current alert level framework. Face masks will only be mandatory on flights but will be encouraged in indoor settings. There is quite a bit more detail for each of these settings, but they will feel familiar. We have based them on what we have learned from using our old alert levels. But the reason we have changed from this system, is because we needed one that could make use of the new tool of vaccines, and vaccine certificates. A way that we could keep vaccinated people safe from those who have not been. In thinking about these settings, and when the country moves into them, we did think specifically about the South Island. We also thought about scenarios where we are close to the targets for each DHB, but possibly stuck a small way shy of where we want to be to transition. That’s why on the 29th of November, Cabinet will review the progress that Auckland has made, and the rest of the country, to see if anything needs to change. We are open to moving the South Island before the rest of the country, if all the DHBs in the south hit their targets before others. And for Auckland, who have done all of the heavy lifting in this outbreak.  We have a collective goal now – but in the meantime, we will keep assessing the settings we have, and if it’s safe to do so, use the step downs we have already talked about.  But rather than having to wait week to week, I hope the announcements today give you a better sense of the destination. So you can see here that our plan gets us moving forward, but in a safe way. And we are better placed than so many others have been, to do that. But, we will have COVID cases in the community. And more than we have experienced before. But because we won’t take this step until we are at 90 per cent vaccination we will also have high levels of protection that limit COVID’s impact. In fact, we will be one of the few countries that will have such high levels of vaccination while still using public health measures to keep everyone as safe as we can, while still enjoying the things we miss and love. And it’s all because of vaccines. Vaccinations are our armour. They help keep us safe. So my message to the New Zealanders who have not yet had their first dose – if you want summer, if you want to go to bars and restaurants. Get vaccinated. If you want to get a haircut. Get vaccinated. If you want to go to a concert, or a festival – get vaccinated. If you want to go to a gym, or a sports events, get vaccinated. If you are not vaccinated, there will be everyday things you will miss out on. And if you are vaccinated you can be assured that in the new framework, you will get to enjoy the things you love, secure in the knowledge that the people around you, and the environment you are in, is as safe as possible in a COVID world. If you have done the right thing to keep yourself and others safe, to look after one another, you should feel safe. You should be protected from those who haven’t made that choice. That’s what the protection framework seeks to offer vaccinated New Zealanders. To sum up, our strategy, moving forward, is to minimise and protect. Our alert level system has chartered us through a global pandemic in a way that kept us relatively free from the virus, and we now have our playbook written if we ever needed it again. But now we have vaccines. And we cannot ask vaccinated people to stay home forever. So now we need a new playbook to reflect a population protected from COVID. That’s what this is. I know you will want as much information as possible at a time like this. And so as always more detailed guidance on this announcement can be found at www.COVID19.govt.nz Just as we did for the alert level framework, we will continue to work through detailed plans for each sector. This detail will be progressively added. Till then, to the team of 5 million. Thank you for doing your bit in our distinctive and world leading fight against COVID-19. I have no doubt that we’ll do what it takes, once again. And move forward, safely, together. Our COVID-19 Protection Framework Last updated: 22 October 2021 at 11:16 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Vaccination clinics around New Zealand are gearing up for a good weekend as people who received their first doses on Super Saturday become eligible for their second shot. Held on 16 October, Super Saturday galvanised Aotearoa, with a record-breaking 130,002 people getting vaccinated on a single day. The 39,025 people who got their first doses that day can get their second doses from this Sunday. This is a not a repeat of Super Saturday but another great example of the mahi DHBs, GPs and hauora providers are doing to go the extra mile to get communities fully vaccinated for summer. Being fully vaccinated means we have more freedom to do the things we love with the people we love. Text or email reminders have gone out to everyone who got their first dose on Super Saturday to either book or turn-up at a walk-in or drive-through clinic this weekend or as soon as possible after that to become fully vaccinated. There are some great events on around the motu this weekend, such as Auckland’s GotYaDot where you can get dotted (vaccinated) at Eden Park and experience the players’ tunnel and team changing room. Those who are vaccinated will get their names up on the big screen that normally celebrates tries at the iconic rugby field. In Porirua, a vaccination site has been set up as a tag football event tomorrow (6 November) and all tag players who get vaccinated will get a voucher for free kai and can nominate a Porirua tag team to receive a koha. An ‘Ethkick’ event targeting ethnic communities is running at the Katikati RSA in the Bay of Plenty tomorrow, which will combine a vaccination pop-up at a soccer tournament. Today (5 November) on the West Coast, they’ve launched their 'C’mon Coasters, it’s time' campaign to lift its vaccination rates and will have a range of vaccination clinics running over the weekend, including a drive-through at the Greymouth aerodrome. Another example is a multi-ethnic family fun day will be held in New Plymouth on Sunday afternoon, with a pop-up vaccination clinic, food, face painting, and ethnic minority doctors in attendance to talk to migrants about any concerns with getting vaccinated. Hawke’s Bay township Waipukurau was the top Māori vaccinating town on Super Saturday, where an impressive 13% of local Māori were vaccinated that day – that’s why community organisation Te Taiwhenua o Heretaunga has won $10,550 from the auctioned Vaxathon mural. Canterbury township Rakaia was the top vaccinating town ,with 12.8% of eligible locals getting vaccinated, which has earned it $15,000 of Mitre10 vouchers for Rakaia Medical Centre. Capital & Coast DHB was the top Super Saturday region, where Fulton Hogan donated $15,000 to Te Ātiawa Waikanae Marae, $30,000 to Evolve Youth One Stop Shop and $30,000 to Partners Porirua. It's expected we will reach the milestone of administering 7 million doses this weekend, and we only need to vaccinate 50,035 more people to reach 90% of our eligible population nationwide who have had their first dose. Once every DHB reaches this 90% fully vaccinated target, New Zealand will move into the COVID-19 Protection Framework. Anyone over 12 who hasn’t yet been vaccinated, or have received their first dose at least 3 weeks ago, is urged to roll up their sleeves and get vaccinated for Super Saturday 2nd Shot. Last updated: 5 November 2021 at 4:09 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. This follows a change to the legislation, which took effect at 11:59pm Sunday October 17 and responds to the need to recognise other vaccines beyond the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine, which is the only COVID-19 vaccine currently available in New Zealand. This move will support employers to enable workers who have completed their course with the Moderna, AstraZeneca, Janssen, or Pfizer vaccines overseas to work on or around the border. It will also support some employers when recruiting people to work on or around the border, especially for specialised roles. Under the previous version of the Vaccinations Order, their vaccination status was not recognised. But these are all vaccines that are either provisionally approved by Medsafe, or by a trusted regulator. To meet the requirements of the amended Vaccinations Order, a border worker who has received a single-dose of the 2-dose Pfizer, Moderna or AstraZeneca vaccines while overseas will need to have a further single dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. A border worker who has been vaccinated with the Janssen vaccine while overseas will not require a further dose of the Pfizer vaccine. The amendment also allows the Director-General of Health to authorise a border worker who is partially vaccinated with the Pfizer, Moderna or AstraZeneca vaccines, or a border worker who is partially vaccinated with another vaccine not named above, to continue working at the border if the Director-General is satisfied that the vaccine received by the worker while overseas will adequately prevent or limit the risk of an outbreak or spread of COVID-19. The amendment updates the Vaccinations Order so that it is consistent with clinical advice on the alternatives to the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. When the original Vaccinations Order was written, the Pfizer vaccine was the only COVID-19 vaccine provisionally approved by Medsafe. The change aligns the Order with Medsafe’s provisional approval of two of these other vaccines. The Vaccinations Order was introduced because the duties carried out by members of the border workforce put them at a higher risk of exposure to COVID-19. The Order plays a critical role in keeping border workers, their whānau, communities and all New Zealanders safe. Last updated: 28 October 2021 at 1:53 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Secondary schools in Alert Level 3 regions will start onsite learning for Years 11 to 13 on Tuesday 26 October 2021. This is a complex issue requiring difficult trade-offs between improving education and increasing potential health risks for children and young people. Learners in this age group are able to be vaccinated and are required to wear masks, and staff and volunteers working on site will need a negative test before attending. Government agencies have also continued to refine public health measures for school and early learning services. Children, young people and staff at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 should stay at home unless fully vaccinated. Face coverings are mandatory for staff and learners in years 9 to 13. Records must be kept for contact tracing purposes. Face coverings on school transport will also be mandatory. And staff and volunteers in all regions need to receive their first vaccine by 15 November 2021. For years 1 to 10 the picture is more complex. The Government is not completely ruling out these students in Alert Level 3 regions being able to return before the end of the year but if they do, we will need to be satisfied there are sufficient processes in place to minimise any risk. Any settings where there are groups of children under 12 are higher risk —  as they are not yet able to be vaccinated. There are mitigations that can be put in place to keep the risk as low as possible. We can consider rostered attendance to reduce the number of students on site at any given time. The warmer summer months also provide more opportunities for learning outdoors where the risk of COVID-19 spreading is lower. Cabinet will consider the latest health advice and the options on Tuesday. There will no longer be bubbles of up to 10 students required when all senior students return on-site, including for those students already on-site in Years 1 to 10. Wherever practicable a 1 metre distance should be kept from all others on-site, particularly between staff, and a two metre distance from people you don’t know. Last updated: 29 October 2021 at 10:46 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The renewal of provisional approval is for a period of two years, until 3 November 2023. Pfizer has met all obligations required to date by the conditions of the provisional approval granted in February this year. This included providing additional data about the clinical trials and vaccine monitoring. By renewing the provisional approval, we will continue to receive and assess data from Pfizer about the administration of the vaccine around the world. During the 2-year renewal period, Medsafe may grant full approval at any time, once Pfizer has submitted a relevant application and information. Medsafe will continue to assess any supporting information against the appropriate standards as additional quality, safety and efficacy data is received and reviewed. The remaining conditions relate to ongoing supply of clinical trial data, ongoing requirements for monitoring the use of the vaccine globally, specific batch test results for vaccine supplied in New Zealand, and reporting these to Medsafe on request. Medsafe has a robust process for assessing quality, safety and efficacy data for all vaccines and medicines supplied in New Zealand. The same stringent measures are applied to COVID-19 vaccines and we do not take any shortcuts when it comes to the approval process. Provisional Consent renewal is routine and has been applied previously to other medicines. Provisional approval is limited to defined time period no longer than 2 years. Medsafe will continue to prioritise the assessment of information for COVID-19 vaccines and will provide further updates when possible. Last updated: 28 October 2021 at 1:18 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The returnee arrived on 3 November and tested positive during a routine day 3 test. The cause of the person’s death will be determined by the coroner, including whether it may have been COVID-19 related. We acknowledge the managed isolation facility’s staff and St John paramedics who were called to the facility just before 6.30am. We wish to extend our sympathies to this person’s family during this stressful time.  Last updated: 8 November 2021 at 12:17 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: Health responses include: “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. New Zealand has secured access to an important new COVID-19 drug that can save lives and cut time in hospital. Earlier this month, we were one of the first countries to buy molnupiravir, an anti-viral drug showing promising potential at stopping people with mild-to-medium symptoms of COVID-19 needing to go to hospital. Today, Pharmac has secured access to another important drug that could help treat people with medium-to-severe COVID-19, especially those with compromised immune systems. Ronapreve is a monoclonal antibody drug and there is a lot of excitement about it. The clinical advice is that it is a massive advance, because it reduces the severity of COVID-19 and decreases the risk of patients passing the virus on to other people. That is hugely important, not only because of the lives it could save directly, but also because it will take pressure off our hospitals, which means they can get on with treating people with other conditions. Pharmac, the national drug-buying agency, has secured access to enough doses of Ronapreve to be able to treat 5,300 people and expects to be able to buy more next year. When we created the special COVID-19 budget, we expected Pharmac to act quickly and secure treatments for New Zealand, and that is what it is doing. Ronapreve, along with molnupiravir and other drugs, form part of our armoury against the COVID-19 pandemic, protecting people and hospital services against its worst impacts. However, other actions are still just as important as they have ever been. Getting at least 90% of people who can be vaccinated, and practical measures like wearing face coverings and physical distancing are all part of the deal. New Zealand has done exceptionally well at dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic. Our infection and death rate is just a fraction of that in other countries because we have done what needed to be done, but we need to keep going. Last updated: 1 November 2021 at 5:55 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Auckland moved to Alert Level 3 at 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August. Restrictions for Auckland at Alert Level 3 The rest of New Zealand will move to Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The latest surge in New Zealanders downloading the NZ COVID Tracer app has taken it over the 1 million mark of registered users. Keep track of where you've been The NZ COVID Tracer app gives us a strong head start in responding. It is not enough to rely on your memory or personal records. All businesses will need to display a QR code for the NZ COVID Trader app by 11:59am on 19 August. It is easy for businesses to download a QR code for their business using a fast new process. Get your QR code  Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery.  We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.  Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB] Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. It comes after the individual late last night returned a positive COVID-19 test result. The individual flew from Rotorua and arrived in Blenheim on 21 October. The individual sought a test upon arrival after developing a sore throat. The initial test, including a follow-up swab, returned a weak positive result. The current public health assessment is that the risk appears low given the individual’s likely late stage of infection. So far, initial case interviews have identified a small number of close contacts, who have been contacted and are currently isolating with tests arranged. Blenheim residents with symptoms – no matter how mild – are asked to please get tested, even if they are vaccinated. Investigations into the source of the infection are underway. However, initial case interviews suggest the case is linked to the Te Awamutu cluster. Interviews are also being undertaken to determine any locations of interest. People living in the Blenheim township are asked to monitor the Ministry of Health’s Locations of interest webpage, which is regularly updated. Locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) Horton Park, off Redwood St Open 9am to 5.30pm on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday Saxton Field parking area, Suffolk Rd, Stoke Open 10am to 6pm on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday Additional testing in the area will be stood up, if needed, and details will be available on the Healthpoint website. Testing centres | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Meanwhile, those in Marlborough, Nelson, and Tasman are reminded to get vaccinated this weekend if they have not already. Vaccination clinic locations across the region are available on the Nelson Marlborough Health website. So far, vaccination rates in the Marlborough region have remained steady with 90% of residents having received their first dose, and 78% fully immunised. The Ministry is monitoring the situation and will provide further public health advice if, and when, required. Vaccination centres | nmdhb.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 27 October 2021 at 2:08 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. All six cases are clearly linked and there is also a link to the Auckland outbreak which is being further investigated. All were tested today and returned positive results this evening. One person was admitted to Taranaki Base hospital this evening for COVID-19 related reasons. Interviews are underway this evening and contact tracing will be underway tomorrow. The affected people are currently isolating at home. Today’s results are likely to explain the recent wastewater detections in the town – the most recent was reported Tuesday 9 November. Any locations of interest will be publicised once determined. Anyone in Stratford, or any recent visitors to the town with COVID-19 related symptoms, no matter how mild, should get tested. Testing details for tomorrow and the weekend: The vaccine hubs are open in New Plymouth and Hāwera on Saturday and Sunday and there are several pop-up clinics in the community. Taranaki DHB will be advising on testing and vaccination centres that will be available in Stratford tomorrow. Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 10:04 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Temporary law changes have been passed in Parliament enabling landlords and commercial tenants to agree a fair proportion of rent relief where a business has suffered losses due to the impacts of COVID-19. The provisions passed into law in the COVID-19 Response (Management Measures) Legislation Bill strike a balanced response to concerns from business operators worried about meeting full rental costs while their incomes have been hit by COVID-19 restrictions required to contain the spread of the virus. We understand many landlords and their commercial tenants either have a clause in their tenancy contracts which offers rent relief during an epidemic emergency, or the parties have been able to agree terms themselves as a result of previous lockdowns. The new provisions apply to parties who have not been able to reach agreement on a fair proportion of rent relief during an epidemic emergency, and giving consideration to losses because a tenant has not been able to fully conduct business in their premises due to COVID-19 restrictions. The landlord and tenant would need to agree on the amount of rent that is fair. They could also agree that the clause does not apply to their lease. The law change would only apply to leases which do not already provide for adjusted rent payment terms during an epidemic emergency. Agreements that parties have already made to adjust rent terms to reflect the COVID-19 situation will also not be affected by the implied clause. The implied clause will apply from 18 August 2021, which is the start of the most recent rise in Alert Levels. This responds to submissions to the Finance and Expenditure Select Committee advocating for parties to be able to access the provisions of these changes from the time restrictions impacted businesses, and it will ensure that the full impact of the lockdown restrictions on businesses can be taken into account. The changes are to ensure that landlords and tenants come to reasonable agreements about rent obligations while still respecting agreements that have already been made. Changes reflecting what was raised by submitters during the select committee process include: These changes in the COVID-19 Response (Management Measures) Legislation Bill support businesses, particularly small and medium enterprises, to resolve disputes over COVID-19 related rent issues while ensuring fairness between tenants and landlords in sharing the financial burden of the impact of COVID-19 restrictions in such a way that gives businesses the best chance of a sustainable recovery. Last updated: 29 October 2021 at 8:16 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Early indications are that these two cases are close contacts of a previously confirmed case from Te Awamutu. They were tested yesterday and received their results back today. The two cases are now isolating locally in dedicated accommodation, with public health oversight. Investigations are continuing to determine further details around the cases movements and another update will be provided tomorrow. Waikato DHB is opening a testing site in the township from tomorrow (Monday) between 11am and 3pm and is encouraging anyone in the township who may have any symptoms to take a test. The site will be at Ōtorohanga Club – 107 Maniapoto Street. These two cases will be formally added to the Ministry’s case total tomorrow at 1pm. Last updated: 24 October 2021 at 7:00 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. One member of the household had recently returned to Christchurch from Auckland. The local public health unit is gathering information from the cases to identify close contacts and exposure events, including any locations of interest. The Ministry will undertake a public health risk assessment of the situation this morning (Thursday 28 October) and a further update will be provided after that. Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres Last updated: 28 October 2021 at 9:30 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The 2 cases are in the same household and at this stage have no known links to the current Northland cluster. Investigations are under way to determine connections to the current outbreak. The pair were tested on 27 October and have been isolating with public health oversight. Investigations are continuing to determine further details around their movements and to identify any locations of interest. A further update will be provided tomorrow. We are encouraging anyone in the area who has symptoms to get a test. Testing over the weekend will be available at the following locations: Kaiwaka – Three Furlongs Please do not call this venue for bookings. Please call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Testing will be available here on Saturday, Sunday and Monday between 10am and 2pm. Whangarei – Kamo 20 Winger Crescent. Hours are Wednesday to Saturday 9am to 4pm and on Sundays from 10am to 4pm. Kerikeri 1 Sammaree Place, Kerikeri. Open daily from 9am to 4pm. These 2 cases will be formally added to the Ministry’s case total tomorrow at 1pm. We urge anyone in Northland who has not already been vaccinated to do so this weekend. Locations are available on the Northland DHB website. Find a testing centre near you Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres The Ministry of Health is investigating reports in Tongan media of a positive COVID-19 result from a person who boarded a commercial flight to Tonga from Christchurch on Wednesday. The case retuned a negative pre-departure test before leaving New Zealand. They are fully vaccinated with the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine and had their second dose on 15 October. They were tested in routine Day 0 testing yesterday and returned a positive result today. The Ministry, along with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, is working with officials in Tonga to confirm the case. There will be further updates on this tomorrow. Last updated: 29 October 2021 at 6:50 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There were 22,007 first and second COVID-19 vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of 6,045 first doses and 15,962 second doses. To date, 90% of eligible New Zealanders aged 12 and over have had their first dose and 80% are fully vaccinated. These are rounded percentages, and we expect to officially pass the 90% mark in the coming days — with just 15,083 additional doses required to reach this milestone. There are 185 community cases in the community today: The rolling 7-day average for community cases is 161. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) An additional death in Auckland has today been added to the national COVID-19 figures. This person’s death is subject to a police investigation and the Ministry of Health will not be commenting further on it, at this stage. Last updated: 11 November 2021 at 1:43 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There were 22,951 first and second COVID-19 vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of 6,343 first doses and 16,608 second doses. There are 175 community cases in the community today: The 5 cases we are officially reporting in Taranaki today are part of the Stratford household of 6 first announced by the Ministry of Health yesterday. The rolling 7-day average for community cases is 162. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) As has been previously advised this morning, Toi Te Ora Public Health has notified the Ministry of a positive COVID-19 case in Taupô. The person was tested on Thursday after becoming symptomatic earlier in the week. Interviews are continuing today to determine any links to known cases. Toi Te Ora is following up on any potential locations of interest. Potential locations of interest will be notified on the Ministry of Health's website. The person’s four household contacts are being tested today. There is additional testing capacity in and around Taupō today and we urge anyone who may have symptoms, however mild, to visit one of the sites and get a test. Taupō testing centres | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Check locations of interest (external link) Last updated: 13 November 2021 at 1:38 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There were 26,996 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of 7,149 first doses and 19,847 second doses. To date, 90 percent of New Zealanders have had their first dose and 81 percent are fully vaccinated. There were 207 community cases: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 14 November 2021 at 1:30 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There were 14,638 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of 4,645 first doses and 9,993 second doses. To date, 90% of New Zealanders have had their first dose and 81% are fully vaccinated. There were 173 community cases: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 1:45 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There were 27,473 vaccines administered yesterday, taking New Zealand’s vaccination rate to 88% for first doses and 76% for second doses. There are 126 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)  The rise in case numbers is a reminder of the infectiousness of COVID-19, and particularly the Delta variant. Vaccination is your best protection. Walk-in and drive through vaccination centres Book My Vaccine (external link) Last updated: 2 November 2021 at 1:35 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are 104 community cases of COVID-19: There were more than 44,000 vaccines administered yesterday. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 23 October 2021 at 1:22 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are 80 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today. As at 10am, 34 of these cases are linked – including 16 household contacts – and 46 remain unlinked, with investigations continuing to help determine their connection to the outbreak. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 27 October 2021 at 2:21 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are 109 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 25 October 2021 at 1:10 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are 79 new community cases today: As at 10am today, 46 of these cases are linked, including 24 household contacts, and 33 remain unlinked with investigations continuing to help determine their connection to the current outbreak. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 26 October 2021 at 1:47 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are 125 new community cases today: The rise in case numbers is a reminder of the infectiousness of COVID-19, and particularly the Delta variant, and the importance of vaccination as the best protection. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 29 October 2021 at 1:49 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are 160 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today The rise in case numbers is a reminder of the infectiousness of COVID-19, and particularly the Delta variant, and the importance of vaccination as the best protection. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 30 October 2021 at 1:28 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are 143 new community cases of COVID-19 to report today: There are no new community cases to report in Christchurch. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)  The rise in case numbers is a reminder of the infectiousness of COVID-19, and particularly the Delta variant, and the importance of vaccination as the best protection. Walk-in and drive through vaccination centres Last updated: 31 October 2021 at 1:13 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There were 26,999 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of 6,659 first doses and 20,340 second doses. To date, 89% of New Zealanders have had their first dose and 77% are fully vaccinated. There are 64 cases in hospital. There are 139 new community cases of COVID-19: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)  The rise in case numbers is a reminder of the infectiousness of COVID-19, and particularly the Delta variant. Vaccination is your best protection. Walk-in and drive through vaccination centres Book My Vaccine (external link) Last updated: 4 November 2021 at 1:39 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There were 27,892 first and second COVID-19 vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of 6,442 first doses and 21,470 second doses. To date, 89 percent of New Zealanders have had their first dose and 78 percent are fully vaccinated. The 206 community cases numbers reported today are a reminder of the infectiousness of COVID-19, and particularly the Delta variant, and the importance of vaccination as the number one protection against the virus. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 6 November 2021 at 1:34 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There were 33,867 first and second COVID-19 vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of 7,401 first doses and 26,466 second doses. To date, 89% of eligible New Zealanders aged 12 and over have had their first dose and 78% are fully vaccinated. There are 113 community cases in the community today: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 7 November 2021 at 1:14 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There were 14,280 first and second COVID-19 vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of 3,272 first doses and 11,008 second doses. To date, 89% of eligible New Zealanders aged 12 and over have had their first dose and 78% are fully vaccinated. There are 190 community cases in the community today: The rolling 7-day average for community cases is 148. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Sadly, today the Ministry of Health have been informed of the death of a patient on Saturday at Auckland City Hospital. The patient, who was in their late-60s, was admitted to hospital on 23 October for a trauma incident and tested positive on admission. The cause of the person’s death will be determined by the coroner, including whether it may have been COVID-19 related. Our thoughts are with the patient’s whânau and friends at this deeply sad time. We would also like to acknowledge the team at Auckland City Hospital and all healthcare workers for their continued hard work and dedication. This person’s death has not been officially reported as it is still under investigation. Last updated: 8 November 2021 at 1:57 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There were 21,192 first and second COVID-19 vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of 5,103 first doses and 16,089 second doses. To date, 89% of eligible New Zealanders aged 12 and over have had their first dose and 79% are fully vaccinated. There are 125 community cases in the community today: The rolling 7-day average for community cases is 148. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 9 November 2021 at 1:20 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. For the most up-to-date information about our managed isolation and quarantine facilities visit the managed isolation and quarantine website. Get information about: Managed isolation and quarantine website (external link)  New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Immigration NZ has the most up to date information on the border exception criteria and process (external link) Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Managed Isolation and Quarantine (external link) Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. Advice on staying healthy Looking after mental wellbeing (external link) Last updated: 29 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz (external link) as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Upper Northland is at Alert Level 3 — Steps 1, 2 and 3 do not apply to this region. Follow all standard Alert Level 3 restrictions. A boundary will be put in place which will run through the centre of the Hokianga Harbour to the Mangamuka Junction on SH1 to the Kaeo River Bridge on SH10 and East Bay to help prevent any potential spread. People must stay home in their bubble, monitor for symptoms and get tested if they are feeling unwell. It is recommended to wear a face covering when leaving the house and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to record any movements. While today’s reported case is a household contact of a case reported yesterday, both cases are unlinked to the other cases in Northland at this stage. Contact tracing and public health interviews are underway to identify any locations of interest and close contacts, and Northlanders are urged to check the Ministry of Health website for updates on locations of interest. Locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination rates for Northland are currently at 79% for first doses, and 65% for second doses. These rates are still not high enough for us to be confident that communities would be sufficiently protected in the case of a wider outbreak. In Northland yesterday 1,125 tests were processed and 1,161 vaccinations provided. We want these numbers to rise, and encourage Northlanders to use this time to go and get vaccinated. If you have had your first shot already, you can get your second shot after 3 weeks. If you have any symptoms of COVID-19, even if these are mild, get tested as soon as possible Cabinet will review the Alert Level 3 settings in Northland on Monday 8 November. Permitted travel at different Alert Levels Last updated: 3 November 2021 at 12:00 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1-10 of 676 updates 15 Nov 2021 Booster doses of the Pfizer vaccine will start being administered from 29 November if it has been 6 months since your second dose. 15 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 15 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Nov 2021 There are four new COVID-19 community cases to report across the Tararua and Lakes districts. 14 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 Nov 2021 In addition to today’s 1pm COVID-19 statement, the Ministry is providing the following update. 13 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Nov 2021 The Ministry of Health is reporting six people with COVID-19 in the Taranaki town of Stratford, including one in hospital. 11 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 11-20 of 676 updates 10 Nov 2021 Auckland and Waikato students in Years 1 to 10 can return to face-to-face learning at schools and kura from 17 November. 09 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 08 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Nov 2021 The Ministry of Health is saddened to be reporting the death this morning of a returnee in a managed isolation facility. 07 Nov 2021 Counties Manukau DHB has reached 90% first doses today, meaning all three Auckland DHBs have now crossed the 90% threshold for first doses. 07 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Nov 2021 Vaccination clinics around the country are gearing up for a good weekend as people who received their 1st doses on Super Saturday become eligible for their 2nd. 05 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 21-30 of 676 updates 04 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 Nov 2021 The government has signed a purchase agreement with Pfizer for 4.7 million additional doses of the COVID-19 vaccine for delivery in 2022. 03 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 02 Nov 2021 Following 2 unlinked community cases reported in the Far North, Upper Northland will move to Alert Level 3 from 11:59pm tonight. 02 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 5:30pm. 02 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Nov 2021 COVID-19 restrictions will be eased slightly in Waikato from tomorrow night, and Auckland next Tuesday 9 November at 11:59pm. 01 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 31 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Oct 2021 Pharmac has bought enough doses of Ronapreve to be able to treat 5,300 people. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 31-40 of 676 updates 30 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Oct 2021 Northland DHB has this afternoon advised the Ministry of Health of 2 new community cases of COVID-19 in Southern Kaipara. 29 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Oct 2021 Temporary law changes have been passed enabling landlords and commercial tenants to agree a fair proportion of rent relief after losses due to COVID-19. 28 Oct 2021 A new Vaccine Uptake Fund to support COVID-19 vaccination among ethnic communities will help further increase vaccinations across Aotearoa. 28 Oct 2021 A new tool that supports disabled people to get vaccinated against COVID-19 was launched today as the country gets closer to the 90% vaccination milestone. 28 Oct 2021 Today Medsafe announces its decision to renew the provisional approval for the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 28 Oct 2021 Three of the COVID-19 vaccines commonly administered overseas are now recognised by the Vaccinations Order that requires border workers to be fully vaccinated. 28 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers. 28 Oct 2021 The Government will soon ease of border restrictions by reducing time spent in MIQ, and expanding one-way quarantine free travel with some Pacific Islands. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 41-50 of 676 updates 28 Oct 2021 The Ministry of Health was notified last evening of two positive COVID-19 cases in Christchurch from the same household. 27 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers. 26 Oct 2021 The Government is introducing a range of measures to help protect workplaces and workers from COVID-19. 26 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 26 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 Oct 2021 Waikato DHB has this evening advised the Ministry of two positive COVID-19 cases in Ōtorohanga. 24 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Oct 2021 The Ministry of Health is today confirming a case of COVID-19 isolating in Blenheim, in the north east of the South Island. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 51-60 of 676 updates 23 Oct 2021 Workers who face a high risk of exposure to COVID-19 and who work in the health and disability and education sectors or in prisons need to be fully vaccinated. 22 Oct 2021 There are 2 new cases of COVID-19 isolating near Kaikohe, Northland. The 2 cases are contacts of a recently diagnosed case in Auckland. 22 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Oct 2021 A third dose of the COVID-19 vaccine that has been recommended for severely immunocompromised individuals aged 12 and older is now available to be accessed. 22 Oct 2021 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern shares a plan with all New Zealanders that will help us stay safe from COVID-19 into the future. 22 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 10am. 22 Oct 2021 Income limits for Hardship Support through the Ministry of Social Development have been temporarily lifted so more people can receive assistance. 22 Oct 2021 A $120 million fund established to accelerate Māori vaccination rates and support communities to prepare for the COVID-19 Protection Framework. 22 Oct 2021 The Government will boost payments to businesses affected by higher alert levels as the country transitions to the new COVID-19 Protection Framework. 21 Oct 2021 The parts of Waikato that have been in Alert Level 3 will remain at that alert level till Wednesday. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 631-640 of 676 updates 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 641-650 of 676 updates 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020  12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 651-660 of 676 updates 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 661-670 of 676 updates 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 671-676 of 676 updates 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Last updated: 29 October 2021 at 9:34 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. Make a direct request for official information The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. This includes papers, minutes, Official Information Act requests (OIAs) and key advice. These documents are proactively released in keeping with the Official Information Act 1982. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Last updated: 8 July 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. When a significant event happens in a region, we will publish information on this page. Advice on what to do if you are in Northland. Alert Level information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, and gatherings. Alert Level information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, and gatherings. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can help stamp out the virus by getting vaccinated. Visit a local vaccination centre now or book your vaccine today. Book your vaccine today Visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre today Any locations of interest will be listed on the Ministry of Health website. Regularly check locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are in Northland and you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should get tested and isolate until you have a negative result. Find a testing centre near you (external link)  At Alert Level 2, there are no restrictions on travelling within the Northland region. Make sure you travel in a safe way: You can travel into, out of, or through Auckland if you are: Note that a holiday is not a permitted reason to travel into, out of, or through Auckland. This list is a summary of permitted travel across the Alert Level boundary. You also must have evidence that you are permitted to travel. Most people aged 12 and over need to get a test before permitted personal travel from Alert Level 3 to Alert Level 2. You do not need a test when travelling out of Alert Level 2. Read our full guidance on permitted travel, and evidence you must have: If you are travelling straight across Auckland, there are some extra reasons you can travel, in addition to what is listed above. You can travel across the boundary in 1 trip (as long as your place of departure and destination are not in Auckland, and it is necessary to travel) if you are: Note that a holiday is not a permitted reason to travel into, out of, or through Auckland. If you are travelling straight across Auckland, you must travel without stopping as much as possible. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 3 guidance. This list is a summary of permitted travel across the Alert Level boundary. You should have evidence of the purpose of your travel and destination. Read our full guidance on permitted travel, and evidence you should have: At Alert Level 2, there are no restrictions on travelling anywhere that is at Alert Level 2. However, people in Northland at Alert Level 2 may find it difficult to travel to other Alert Level 2 areas, as they can only travel through Auckland if their travel is permitted. If you are in Northland at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere that is at Alert Level 2 for any reason as long as you do not go into, out of, or through Auckland. If you must go into, out of, or through Auckland, then your travel must be permitted. If you want to travel to Northland and you live in an Alert Level 2 area, you can travel there for any reason as long as you do not go into, out of, or through Auckland. The permitted reasons to travel are listed in the Travelling across the Alert Level boundary into Auckland section of this page: Travelling into, out of, or through Auckland Last updated: 11 November 2021 at 11:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements Last updated: 21 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Follow us on social media: We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Get Unite against COVID-19 tiles you can use on your social media. Social media tiles Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) Last updated: 4 October 2021 at 2:57 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. You might be interested in: Advice and resources for businesses on keeping workers and others safe from COVID-19, operating safely at different Alert Levels and financial support. Find out what you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and your workmates safe from COVID-19 while you're at work. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. Download and print these resources — including posters, signs and resources to record visitors and customers. Download and print signs and posters to help keep your workplace safe. Last updated: 7 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. This toolkit contains information and resources to help workplaces, non-profit groups and other organisations to support the national vaccine and immunisation programme — and most importantly, ensure your people are protected from COVID-19. COVID-19 Vaccine Business and workplace toolkit [PDF, 2.7 MB] A free COVID-19 business helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. This includes sole traders. Get support and advice on: Employers can also get specific advice on people challenges, including staffing changes, employee wellness, and meeting your health and safety obligations. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have an enquiry about the Alert Level 4 rules or if you are unsure if you can operate, you can call 0800 424 946 for advice. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, modifying and terminating employment agreements, and vaccinations. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) Vaccines and the workplace (external link) COVID-19 vaccinations — Q+As for employers (external link)  Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Last updated: 21 August 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Advice and resources for businesses on keeping workers and others safe from COVID-19, operating safely at different Alert Levels and financial support. At Alert Level 1, all businesses can operate if they can do so safely. At Alert Level 2 all businesses can open with some restrictions, including physical distancing, use of face coverings and record keeping. At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Find out if your business can operate at Alert Level 4. Operators of busy places and events legally must have ways for everyone 12 years and over to record their visits at all Alert Levels. Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. A fully vaccinated workforce will help keep your workplace safe from COVID-19. You can do your part by supporting your employees to get vaccinated when it is their turn. Vaccinations are mandatory for workers at the border and in managed isolation, and workers in the education and health and disability sectors. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. We all have a part to play in keeping ourselves and others safe from COVID-19. Make sure: Many Alert Level 1 businesses and services will be legally required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses must legally display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to provide an alternative way for customers and visitors to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping At Alert Level 1, all public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. You can help your customers get into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we will be. Encourage workers to turn on Bluetooth tracing. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people we've been near. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Bluetooth tracing If your workers are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, ask them to stay home and get health advice. They can call: Support workers to get tested. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you are eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Your workers should tell you if they: If workers have COVID-19 like symptoms, they shouldn’t come back to work until they have either recovered or have been tested and cleared from having COVID-19 and are no longer symptomatic. Regularly check in with your workers who are unwell to make sure they can return to work safely. Guidance for workplaces that have a case of COVID-19 (external link) Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. Display signs at entrances to let people know they should not enter if they feel unwell. Set up flexible work arrangements so workers do not feel pressured to come into work when they are unwell. Flexible work arrangements can include working from home, working from another location, or changing the hours of work. Workers may also feel anxious about returning to work after they have been unwell. Support workers to look after their mental health and wellbeing while they work away from the office. Looking after mental health and wellbeing during COVID-19 (external link) Encourage workers to keep up hygiene practises by: How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Public health guidance on cleaning practises for businesses (external link) Physical distancing means keeping a safe distance from others. There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. You can help reduce the risk of infection from COVID-19 through physical distancing by: Always discuss any changes with your workers first. If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses Last updated: 8 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 2, all businesses can operate and have customers on their premises if they can do so safely. All workers should keep at least 1 metre apart, where possible. To help everyone physically distance safely, you can: If you own or run a business where staff cannot work home, you may want to stagger start times to limit cross over between staff. If your business has customers on site, you need to meet physical distancing requirements. This may mean you need to limit the number of people that can enter your premises at any given time so people can safely physically distance. You can also limit customer contact by offering contactless payment options and providing contactless deliveries. In places like retail stores, shopping malls, libraries, gyms, museums, swimming pools, and parts of offices where customers may be present, customers and clients on the premises need to stay 2 metres apart. At hospitality venues — for example, cafes, restaurants and bars, and event facilities —for example, cinemas, theatres or stadiums customers on the premises only need to keep 1 metre apart. There are specific rules for businesses in hospitality, retail and in-home services and businesses organising events or gatherings. Eating out at Alert Level 2 Retail and in-home services at Alert Level 2 Events and gatherings at Alert Level 2 Advice for businesses that normally have customers on site | business.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is not open to the public — for example, an office or a factory floor, workers only need to keep 1 metre apart. There is no limit on the number of people that can be on the workplace premises, as long as everyone can safely physically distance. Your employees do not need to wear a face covering, but we encourage everyone to wear one. If you have visitors to your workplace, you need to make sure they keep a 2 metre distance from others — for example, reception staff. Advice for businesses that only have workers on site | business.govt.nz (external link) Your employees must wear a face covering if they work: Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering Customers also need to wear a face covering when visiting certain businesses. If customers refuse to wear a face covering, you do not have to make them wear one, especially if there is a risk to your worker's safety. Keeping your workers safe when asking customers to wear face coverings | business.govt.nz (external link) Many businesses and services are now required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer customers and visitors an alternative way to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping Get your QR code poster For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place including: At Alert Level 2, your employees can go into someone's home to work — for example, tradespeople, home cleaners, nannies and in-home care providers. They must stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If your employees go into someone's home to work, they should keep records of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: Your employees should not go into someone's home if they are unwell, or if the clients they are visiting are unwell. Advice for businesses that n ormally enter customers’ homes, vehicles or workplaces | business.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, your employees can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to their workplace. At Alert Level 2, your employees can travel for work to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2. Employees should keep a record of who they have been in contact with, and what transport services they used. If workers are using a company vehicle or travelling together in a work vehicle, try to limit the number of people travelling so people can safely distance. If physical distancing is difficult, we recommend employees wear a face covering. Make sure you clean and sanitise vehicles after use. Business or work travel in and out of Auckland is strictly limited. The Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading. If your workers need to cross the Alert Level boundary, only allow those who need to travel to do so. You should put in place extra measures to keep your workers safe — including rotating shifts to minimise the number of people they come in contact with. Business travel over an Alert Level boundary If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses Last updated: 11 October 2021 at 10:21 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out more about doing business at Steps 1, 2 and 3   At Alert Level 3, everyone should work from home if they can. If your business involves close physical contact, it cannot open. All other businesses can operate, but with restrictions. This includes: If your business does not have measures in place to operate safely, then you should close. Guidance for specific businesses at different Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Information for businesses and services in primary industries | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Your business legally must be contactless. Yo ur customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a: Customers cannot eat or drink on your premises. At Alert Level 3, work such as building and construction can resume. If you are a retail business operating in the Alert Level 3 area, you can sell and deliver both essential and non-essential goods to customers in the Alert Level 4 area. If you own or run a business where staff cannot work from home, make sure: Your employees must wear a face covering if they work: Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering At Alert Level 3, it is important we have strong contact tracing abilities. Many Alert Level 3 businesses are now legally required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer visitors an alternative way to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 3, only certain in-home services can operate. Your employees can go into someone's home to work if they are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician, locksmith, if they are a gardener or landscaper, or for pest control. They must wear a face covering when going into someone's home. They should stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. They also need to keep records of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: Your employees should not go into someone's home if they are unwell, or if the clients they are visiting are unwell. Home cleaners can only work to provide support to vulnerable people — for example, disabled people or people with health conditions. At Alert Level 3, in-home carers can continue to provide support. Employers of in-home carers must have appropriate guidelines and systems in place to keep their staff safe in the workplace. This includes following the public health guidelines and notifying a carer if the person they are visiting is sick. Anyone who enters a home to provide care should: At Alert Level 3, your employees can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to their workplace premises in an Alert Level 3 area. Think about what tasks can be done from home — for example, having a virtual meeting rather than meeting in-person, or doing the administration work from home. If your workers do need to go onto the workplace premises, only allow those who need to go into work to do so. Everyone else should work from home. Public transport services will have limited capacity at Alert Level 3 so everyone can distance safely. This means public transport services cannot carry standing passengers. Public transport at Alert Level 3 Permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area Business or work travel in and out of Auckland is strictly limited. The Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading. If your workers need to cross the Alert Level boundary, only allow those who need to travel to do so. You should put in place extra measures to keep your workers safe — including rotating shifts to minimise the number of people they come in contact with. Business travel over an Alert Level boundary If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses Last updated: 2 November 2021 at 10:47 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Steps 1 and 2, if your workers can work from home, they should continue to do so. Retail and public facilities can open from Step 2. You can also have outdoor gatherings of 25 people. In Step 1, s upermarkets, dairies, butchers, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations and pharmacies can continue to have customers on their premises. All other retail businesses must continue to be contactless. If you are a retail business, you will be able to open your store to customers from Step 2. Workers and customers must wear a face covering — unless they are exempt. Food courts inside shopping malls must continue to offer contactless pick-up or delivery options only. Customers cannot consume food or drink inside a shopping mall. Fruit and vegetable markets can reopen. Food trucks and other hospitality businesses that operate at a market can only provide food and drinks for contactless pick up or takeaway. Customers will not be able to eat or drink at the market as they must wear a face covering at all times. Make sure you have ways for customers to shop safely. This includes: In Step 1, all public facilities such as museums and libraries must remain closed. Public facilities, such as museums, libraries and zoos, can open to customers from Step 2. There are no restrictions on the number of customers, as long as everyone can safely stay 2 metres apart. Gyms and indoor recreation facilities including swimming pools must remain closed. If your premises has different facilities on site — for example, a library, gym and a cafe — each facility must follow the rules that apply to the type of business it is. Workers and customers must wear a face covering when inside. Help your customers stay safe by asking them to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, providing hand sanitiser inside your venue, offering online services, and regularly cleaning and sanitising shared areas. In Steps 1 and 2, hospitality venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and takeaway stores must remain contactless  — you can only offer contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through options. This includes food courts inside shopping malls. Customers cannot eat or drink on your premises — this includes indoor and outdoor areas. In Step 3, hospitality venues can open to customers. You can have a maximum of 50 people in any indoor or outdoor defined space. Defined spaces (external link) Restaurants, cafes and bars can have people seated in both indoor and outdoor spaces, but they need to make sure the two groups do not mix. This means making sure there are separate entrances for shared areas —  for example bathrooms or counters where people go up to order or pay. Nightclubs must remain closed. Your customers must be seated to be served. Workers who interact with customers must wear a face covering. Keep tables 1 metre apart to allow everyone to distance safely. If your venue is small, you may need to limit numbers to meet physical distancing requirements. Customers should keep to their household bubbles when eating out. Encourage everyone to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app to make it easier for contact tracing. In Steps 1 and 2, event and entertainment venues such as cinemas, theatres or casinos must remain closed. In Step 3, event and entertainment venues can open to customers. If you are an event venue, you can have a maximum of 50 customers in any indoor or outdoor defined space. Defined spaces If your venue has both indoor and outdoor defined spaces, you may be able to have multiple groups of 50 people attending as long as the groups do not mix. Everyone attending an event venue needs to stay 2 metres apart. This means, you may need to alternate seating to meet your physical distancing requirements. Workers and attendees must wear a face covering. Performers do not need to wear a face covering when on stage, but we encourage them to wear one backstage. Attendees can take their face covering off to eat and drink. Keep your workers and your customers safe by: In Steps 1 and 2, hairdressers, barbers and businesses offering close contact personal care services such as massage or beauty treatments must remain closed. In Step 3, close contact businesses can open to customers. There are no restrictions on the number of customers that can be inside — as long as everyone can safely stay 2 metres apart. Workers do not need to keep 2 metres apart when providing the service to their client, but you need to have ways for customers to keep 2 metres apart. For example, you may want to seat clients at every other station, and have designated waiting areas. Workers must wear a face covering. Customers are encouraged to wear a face covering and can remove it when they are getting the treatment or service. Keep your workers and your clients safe by: If your business is not currently operating at Alert Level 3, and is not covered under the 3 step plan for reopening, you will not be able to operate. If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. The August 2021 Wage Subsidy will continue to be available to all businesses while Auckland is in Steps 1, 2 and 3. Financial support for businesses As we move through each of these steps, we still need to keep up the hard mahi. You can help keep your business open for longer by encouraging all of your staff to get vaccinated if they have not already done so. Vaccination is the best tool we have for protecting ourselves, our whānau and our community.   Last updated: 5 November 2021 at 8:56 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay in our household bubbles. If you or your employees can work from home, they can continue to work at Alert Level 4. If your business provides an Alert Level 4 business or service, then your employees can go into work if they cannot work from home. You cannot apply to provide an Alert Level 4 service — instead it is up to the business to check whether they meet the definition of an Alert Level 4 business or service. You do not need an exemption or permission to operate or for your employees to go to work. Working safely at Alert Level 4 Pay and leave entitlements for employees during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 4, only certain businesses can open to the public and have customers on their premises. You can open to customers if you are a: All other businesses must not have customers on their premises. Operating at different Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Information for businesses and services in primary industries | mpi.govt.nz (external link) If you are an Alert Level 4 business or service and you are permitted to have customers on your premises, you can open for click and collect services. If you are a hardware store, click and collect is only available for trade customers. Make sure your staff limit their interactions with customers as much possible by having contactless methods for pick up and payment. If you have an enquiry about the Alert Level 4 rules or if you are unsure if you can operate, you can: The following businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 4. The businesses are organised by sector. Not all of these businesses can have customers on the premises, and there are restrictions on how they can operate. You do not need to apply to operate with MBIE or MPI during Alert Level 4. It is up to you to check if you business meets the criteria of an Alert Level 4 business or service.  The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has published a list of essential non-food consumer products that can be provided at Alert Level 4. Businesses and shoppers are expected to act responsibly. Any provision of essential non-food consumer products should be by online order with contactless delivery only. Essential non-food consumer products | business.govt.nz (external link) If your employees need to work on site, you should: If your employees interact with customers or members of the public, they legally must wear a face covering while at work. Face coverings at Alert Level 4 If your workplace is allowed customers on premises make sure you encourage everyone to: If your business cannot meet all Alert Level 4 rules to operate safely, your workers should not go into work. Working safely at Alert Level 4 At Alert Level 4, it is important we have strong contact tracing ability. Businesses that are open at Alert Level 4 legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer visitors a way to manually sign in. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Record keeping and contact tracing  At Alert Level 4, your employees can go into someone's home to work if they are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician or locksmith. They can only do urgent repair or maintenance work — if it is critical to safety, or to maintain the necessities of life. If your employees do go into someone's home to work, they must: Your employees should not go into someone's home if they are unwell, or if the clients they are visiting are unwell. If your employees need to go into the premises or work on site, they can travel to work by any method, like their car or public transport. Employees may be asked to show who they work for so they can prove they have a reason to travel. We recommend you provide your employees with a letter to confirm: Public transport services may have limited capacity during Alert Level 4. You will not be permitted to stand on public transport so everyone can safely distance. If your employees need to use public transport to get to work, we encourage you to offer flexible working options. Business or work travel across Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 2 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 2 boundary if that travel is permitted. You also need to make sure your workers have acceptable evidence that they are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 4 and 2 boundary Your employees can travel to your workplace to collect any materials or equipment they need to help them work from home. When going into your workplace, your employees should: Your employees should not go into the workplace if they are unwell, have been asked to isolate or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. (external link) (external link) If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. The carer cannot join another household bubble. The carer does not need to wear a face covering when looking after your children. If your employee or someone they live with has been at a location of interest, everyone in the household must follow all public health advice. This may mean self-isolating in their bubble at home. Your employee should not: This is essential to prevent spreading the virus further. If your employee is required to self-isolate, you can support them by: Encourage your employees to keep checking the locations of interest as they are updated regularly. If your employee or someone they live with has been at a location of interest, they should let you know straight away so they can go home and isolate. What to do if you have been at a location of interest (external link) If an employee finds out they have tested positive for COVID-19 while they are at work, they must tell you immediately. You may be directed by a medical officer of health to comply with certain public health measures to limit the spread of COVID-19, and protect your employees, their whānau and your community. The Ministry of Health has guidance on what you need to do if an employee, customer or visitor is a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. Guidance for workplaces that have a case of COVID-19 (external link) If an employee develops symptoms of COVID-19 at work, send them home and ask them to call Healthline or their GP for advice on getting a test. If your business is identified as a location of interest, you will be contacted by a public health official. The public health official will talk you through what this means for you. The Ministry of Health has guidance on what to tell your staff and customers if you're identified as a location of interest and how to identify any contacts who may have been exposed to COVID-19. If your business is a location of interest | Ministry of Health (external link) If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses Last updated: 16 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. You should only use the official NZ COVID-19 QR code poster issued by the Ministry of Health. This is so that visitors know that scanning the QR code links to NZ COVID Tracer app, and is for contact tracing purposes. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your locations. The form will ask you for your NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code: you do not need these if you're creating a QR code for personal reasons. You'll need: Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of locations or do not have a New Zealand driver licence, use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. Use this template if you do not have a New Zealand driver licence or you have a large number of locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) You can reprint your QR code posters, update and manage the contact details registered to your poster and archive any posters you no longer need online. Manage and reprint your QR code poster (external link) We encourage you to check your contact details are up to date. This will help contact tracers to quickly notify you if someone who tests positive for COVID-19 has been to your premises, or if your business is identified as a location of interest. When someone tests positive for COVID-19, contact tracers need to know where they have been while they were infectious. If a person who tests positive for COVID-19 has visited your business, contact tracers need to get in touch with you and notify people who were there at the same time. The faster that this can happen, the faster that contacts can isolate and get tested, and the more likely it is that we can stop the spread of COVID-19. If they scanned in, everything can go faster. Contact tracers can use the contact details you included when you signed up for your QR code poster to get in touch with you quickly, and let you know what to do next. If the person who tested positive did not scan in, contact tracers use the location name on your poster to find the right place. Once they have found the right poster details, they use that information to get in touch with you, and quickly alert anyone who scanned in at the time the case was there. If it is hard to find the right poster details, this takes longer – and sometimes we cannot find them at all. If you have multiple posters at the same place, we might not alert the right one, so we might not notify everyone who scanned in. All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This  applies at all Alert Levels. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they have been. This includes buses, trains, planes, ferries and ride-share vehicles. Public transport services must display additional copies of QR codes in prominent places — such as windows to make it easier and more accessible for passengers to scan in. Public transport services that have less than 5 seats, taxis and ride-share vehicles only need to display one QR code. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a QR code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle.   You must display your QR code poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You must have additional QR codes available to scan in other places around your business — for example, at counters where people go up to pay, at the reception desk or in areas where customers and visitors regularly walk past. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. Your poster also needs to be in good condition so it is easy to scan for your customers and visitors. We recommend you: Do not: Last updated: 5 October 2021 at 11:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Help protect Aotearoa by encouraging staff and visitors to scan in every time they visit your business. Record keeping involves collecting the details of all workers, customers, and visitors who visit your workplace or location. If there is a case of COVID-19 in the community, public health officials and contact tracers will use this information to identify people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. When businesses and event organisers keep records of who was at their workplace or location, it makes contact tracing faster and more efficient. Good record keeping and fast contact tracing will help stop the spread of COVID-19, and protect our businesses, communities and each other. Many businesses and locations are now required to make sure people can easily keep a record of when they visit. This is a requirement at all Alert Levels. If you are the person in charge of a business, location or event, you legally must: You legally must have more than one way for people to record their visit, especially for people who are not able to scan QR codes. Your system for recording customers and visitors can include: You still need to continue displaying your QR code poster even if you are not required to collect customer records. More information and advice on record keeping | business.govt.nz (external link)  Certain businesses and event organisers legally must have a way for customers and visitors to record that they have entered their premises or attended a gathering or event. You must have ways to record a visit if you are: At an event, for example a wedding or tangihanga, either the venue owner or operator, or the organiser/hirer of the venue can be the person who is responsible for making sure there are ways for people to record their visit. We still encourage you to keep contact tracing records and promote the use of the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information about the NZ COVID Tracer app Contact records are personal information. They need to be collected, used, stored, disclosed, and disposed of safely and securely in accordance with the Privacy Act 2020. The most secure way for customers and visitors to record their details is by scanning the NZ COVID Tracer app. If people cannot use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you need to make sure that any alternative method you use for contact tracing protects people’s privacy, and that you only use the information they provide for contact tracing purposes. Alternative recording systems require more care to keep them safe and secure. Do not leave paper-based records out in the open where others can see the information. This is the leading cause of COVID-19-related privacy breaches. The Office of the Privacy Commissioner's website has practical guidance that will help you protect people's privacy when using alternative contact recording methods. Use a simple privacy statement alongside your alternative record keeping system to let people know why the information is needed and how long you need it for. Guidance on mandatory record keeping for contact tracing | privacy.org.nz (external link) There are several ways you can make record keeping easier for you and your workers, customers and visitors. If someone refuses to or is unable to scan in, you are not expected to force someone to provide their details, or to refuse them entry. Remember, some people may have their own way of keeping track of where they have been. It is up to you to decide what is appropriate for your premises and the wellbeing of your staff and other customers. Download and print record keeping slips, stickers and a box template. You can also print posters to remind staff, customers and visitors to scan in. Resources If you do not follow these record keeping requirements, you will be fined an infringement fee of $300 or a court-imposed fine of up to $1,000. Failing to display a QR code will continue to be an infringement offence carrying an infringement fee of $300 or court imposed fine of up to $1,000. Last updated: 6 October 2021 at 5:09 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out what you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and your workmates safe from COVID-19 while you're at work. Find out what your employer needs to do to keep you safe at work at Alert Level 2. Find out what your employer needs to do to keep you safe at work at Alert Level 3. Find out what your employer needs to do to keep you safe at work at Alert Level 4. Information on what your employer can do to support you to get vaccinated. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 2, your workplace can open and have customers on site, but with some restrictions. Customers are required to wear face coverings when visiting certain businesses. You should encourage customers to wear a face covering, but you do not have to enforce this, if people refuse. Talk to your employer about how they can help keep you safe. Keeping workers safe when asking customers to wear face coverings | advice from business.govt.nz (external link) Your employer may also ask you to work from home if you are able to, or offer flexible working arrangements to help meet physical distancing requirements. If you are worried about going into work, talk to your employer about flexible work arrangements. If there is something more your employer can do to keep you safe at work, talk to them and explain what you would like to happen. If you are a taxi, ride-share or delivery driver, you must wear a face covering. You must wear a face covering even if you have been vaccinated. If you are a delivery driver: Advice for delivery drivers | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, you can go into someone's home to work — for example if you are a cleaner, tradesperson, nanny or in-home care provider. You must stay 2 metres apart from others. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If you go into someone's home to work, remember to keep a record of your visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: Do not go into someone's home if you or if the clients you visit are unwell. If you have been asked to isolate or get a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home and follow all public health guidelines. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test (external link) Financial support if you need to isolate (external link) At Alert Level 2, you can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to work. Business or work travel across Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading. You can only travel across the Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundary if your reason for travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 3 and 2 boundary At Alert Level 2, you can travel freely within any Alert Level 2 areas for work. You can use both public and private transport. Remember to wear a face covering on all public transport services and to keep a record of the services you used. Last updated: 6 October 2021 at 12:00 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 3, you should work from home if you can. If you are working from home, your employer should: All interactions with customers legally must be contactless. This means customers cannot come onto the premises, unless you work at a: If you need to interact with customers, check that your employer has set up contactless options for payment, deliveries and collection. If your workplace is allowed customers on site, your employer should install screens or barriers to help with physical distancing. Your employer may also provide you with personal protective equipment (PPE), for example gloves to use as an extra safety measure. You also must keep 1 metre apart from people you work with. Your employer must provide you with training on the safety measures they have implemented, and consult with you before making any changes to the way you work. Your employer also needs to provide you with hand sanitiser and cleaning products so you can wash your hands and clean and disinfect equipment and surfaces you touch often. We recommend you scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app before you enter your workplace, or keeping your own record to help with contact tracing. You legally must wear a face covering if you work: Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering If you are feeling worried or anxious about going into your workplace, talk to your employer. At Alert Level 3, there are limited reasons for going into someone's home to work. You can go into someone's home to work if you are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician or locksmith, a gardener or landscaper, or for pest control. You must wear a face covering when going into someone's home to work. If you go into someone's home to work: Do not go into someone's home if you are unwell, or if the clients you visit are unwell. If you are a home cleaner, you can continue to support vulnerable people — for example, disabled people or people with health conditions. At Alert Level 3, in-home carers can continue to provide support. Your employer must have appropriate guidelines and systems in place to keep you safe at work. This includes following the public health guidelines and notifying you if the person you are providing care for is sick. If you are going into someone's home to provide care, you should: If you have been asked to isolate or get a COVID-19 test, it's important you stay home and follow all public health guidelines. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test (external link) Financial support if you need to isolate Last updated: 26 October 2021 at 2:37 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 4, you must work from home. You can go to work at your workplace if you are employed by a business that is authorised to provide goods or services at Alert Level 4. This includes: Not all businesses that operate at Alert Level 4 are allowed customers and clients in the workplace. Talk to your employer if you are unsure if you are an Alert Level 4 worker. Find out which businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 4 If you are feeling worried or anxious about going into your workplace, talk to your employer. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker, and: You legally must stay home and follow public health guidelines. Do not go into work. What to do if you have been at a location of interest (external link) You should also stay home if you are unwell. If you have cold or flu symptoms call your GP or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a COVID-19 test. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test Financial support if you need to isolate If you are an Alert Level 4 worker, it is very important that you keep checking the locations of interest so you can isolate immediately if you visited them at the relevant times. This is to stop the spread of the virus further. Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 has visited. You are a contact if you have been at a location of interest at the specified time. Check the locations of interest and follow the health advice of the Ministry of Health. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 4, you can go into someone's home to work if you are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician or locksmith. You can only do urgent repair or maintenance work — if it is critical to safety, or to maintain the necessities of life. You must wear a face covering when going into someone's home to work. You do not need to wear a face covering if you are a carer looking after children in someone's home. You should stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If you go into someone's home to work, you must keep a record of your visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: Do not go into someone's home if you are unwell, or if the clients you visit are unwell. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work. You can use public or private transport to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: Public transport services may have limited capacity at Alert Level 4. You will not be permitted to stand so everyone can safely distance. If you need to use public transport to get to work, we recommend you talk to your employer about flexible working options. Public transport at Alert Level 4 You legally must wear a face covering on all public transport, including at departure points such as train stations or bus stops. If you are working from home, your employer should: It's important to look after your mental health and wellbeing while you are working from home. Advice on staying mentally healthy when working from home | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) You can travel to your workplace to collect equipment to help you work from home. Make sure you check with your employer about the rules for entering the workplace premises. When going into your workplace, you should: Do not go into your workplace if you are unwell, have been asked to isolate or if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Last updated: 16 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Find out what financial support you can get for your business. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, or if you are an employee. Last updated: 8 October 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Businesses can now apply for the increased Resurgence Support Payment. The eligibility criteria remains the same. The Resurgence Support Payment will continue to be available to businesses anywhere in New Zealand until all areas of New Zealand return to Alert Level 1 or move to Orange or Green under the COVID-19 Protection Framework. Resurgence Support Payment Applications for the seventh round of the August 2021 Wage Subsidy are now open. You can apply until 11:59pm 25 November 2021. The payment rates and eligibility criteria remain the same. The Wage Subsidy will continue to be available to businesses anywhere in New Zealand while any part of the country is in Alert Levels 3 or 4. Wage Subsidy Scheme The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be available to all businesses while any part of the country is in Alert Levels 3 or 4. For example, while Auckland is in Alert Levels 3 or 4, businesses in Auckland and other parts of the country can apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme. You can apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme to help keep paying your staff and protect jobs. Businesses must meet the eligibility criteria to apply. Businesses and self-employed people must expect a 40% drop in revenue to be eligible to receive the wage subsidy. The wage subsidy is paid in a 2 week lump sum. You can get: You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Applications for the seventh August 2021 Wage Subsidy are now open. The payment rates and eligibility criteria remain the same. If you have already applied for the previous round of the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy August 2021, you need to wait until 2 weeks after you applied before you can apply for the new Wage Subsidy, even if you have not received a payment yet. Apply for the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps to cover wages and fixed costs for businesses who have been directly affected when there is an increase to Alert Level 2 or higher for a week or more. To be eligible, your business must have experienced at least a 30% drop in revenue or a 30% decline in capital-raising ability over a 7-day period, due to an increase in Alert Levels. Businesses anywhere in New Zealand can apply if they meet the eligibility criteria. You can apply for both the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment and the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme if you meet all the eligible criteria. Apply for the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment (external link) If you employ 50 or fewer staff, you may be able to apply for the Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme. This is a one-off 5 year loan. You can b orrow a maximum of $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee within your business . Loans will be interest free if they are paid back within 2 years. The interest rate is 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Apply for the Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme (external link) (external link) (external link) If you are finding it hard to meet your tax obligations due to COVID-19, Inland Revenue may be able to help. COVID-19 information for businesses | Inland Revenue (external link) If you cannot meet the full rental costs for your business, you can talk to your landlord to come to an agreement about a payment that is fair. Both you and the landlord need to agree on the amount. If you cannot agree to on a fair amount, you will need to go to arbitration. Help with commercial rent (external link) The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to get a month’s protection while they talk to their creditors. During this period, most creditors cannot take legal action to enforce their debts, for example, applying for your business to be liquidated. If your creditors agree, you can get a further 6 months’ protection. Applications are open until 31 October 2021. Find out if business debt hibernation is an option for you (external link) If an employee has been asked to self-isolate by a doctor or health official, they legally must stay home until they are told they no longer need to by public health officials. If an employee cannot work from home while self-isolating, you may be able to apply for financial support so they can continue to get paid. If your employees have been asked to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. Employees on a casual contract are also eligible for the payment. You can also use the payment to help pay employees who: The Leave Support Scheme is paid as a 2 week lump sum at the rate of: Employers and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. This payment is available anytime, and is not restricted to a change in Alert Levels. You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) If an employee has been asked to get a COVID-19 test, they must stay home until they get a negative result. If an employee cannot work from home, you may be able to apply for financial support so they can continue to get paid. The COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment helps businesses keep paying employees who cannot work from home and: Employees on a casual contract are also eligible for the payment. You can get a one-off amount of $359 for each eligible worker while they are staying home waiting for test results. The amount is the same for both full-time and part-time employees. You can apply for the Short-term Absence Payment any time, not just when there is a risk of community transmission, or change in Alert Levels. You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) As Auckland transitions to the new COVID-19 Protection Framework, businesses will be able to apply for up to $3000 worth of advice and planning support, and then receive up to $4,000 to implement that advice through the established Regional Business Partners programme. There will also be funding available for businesses to apply for mental health support for their employees. If you are interested in receiving more information about this support or information on how to apply, you can register your interest. Sign up for notifications about Auckland business support (external link) COVID-19 support for Auckland businesses | Regional Business Partners Network (external link) The Ethnic Communities Development Fund is available for projects that support ethnic communities to grow their skills, celebrate their culture and take part in society. It is also available for initiatives that support our communities as they deal with the challenges of COVID-19. Any group can apply if your project supports ethnic communities in New Zealand. The fund’s definition of ethnic communities includes migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: $4.2 million a year is available through the Ethnic Communities Development Fund. Groups with legal status (this includes trusts and incorporated societies) can apply for over $10,000. Groups without legal status can apply for up to $10,000. You can apply at any time — there is no closing date. Apply now (external link) Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 10:43 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. From 1 November 2021, the income levels for individuals to receive financial support from Work and Income will increase. This means that: The new income level limits will be in place until 28 February 2022. Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | msd.govt.nz (external link) Whānau Ora helps whānau access health and welfare services, and meet basic needs for food, accommodation, heating, internet connectivity, water and sewerage. You can contact Whānau Ora on: If you are a tertiary student, you can contact Studylink for advice. COVID-19 information for students | studylink.govt.nz (external link) If you are worried about your mortgage repayments, talk to your bank or finance company about the options that are available to you. Work and Income can also help with o ther accommodation costs, or support to stay in your home — for example help with essential repairs or maintenance or with heating costs. Help with housing costs (external link) If you are having trouble paying your rent due to COVID-19, let your landlord know straight away. You may be able to work together to agree on a repayment plan, or negotiate your rent for a period of time so you can stay in your home. Information for landlords and tenants on negotiating rent (external link) If you have overdue rent and you are worried you will lose your housing, you can talk to Work and Income for support. Find out about rent arrears assistance and how to apply (external link) Work and Income can also help with o ther accommodation costs, or support to stay in your home — for example help with essential repairs or maintenance or with heating costs. Help with housing costs (external link) If your income has reduced or you cannot work because of Alert Level restrictions, your employer can apply for the Wage Subsidy Scheme to help keep paying you. The Wage Subsidy Scheme is available to all businesses while any part of the country is in Alert Levels 3 or 4. Your employer needs to meet the eligibility criteria to apply — they do not need to be in an Alert Level 3 area. You can also apply if you are self employed. Applications for the fourth August 2021 Wage Subsidy are now open. Wage Subsidy Scheme If your employer applies for the wage subsidy, they must pay you at least 80% of your normal pay. If they cannot, they must pass on the total amount of the subsidy to you. If you normally earn less than the subsidy amount, your employer must continue to pay your normal pay. Regular employment law still applies during different COVID-19 alert levels. Information for workers on leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. Think about whether you can work from home. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. You can also apply if you are self-employed. Your employer can also get this payment for you if you: You employer can get a one-off payment of $359 to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) If you have been asked by health officials to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. Your employer can also get this payment for you if you: Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Find the contact details and opening hours of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission in New Zealand (external link) If you're an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available. Last updated: 22 October 2021 at 11:36 am Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 years and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Let's get back to doing the things we love. You might be interested in Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 Find out about booking your vaccination, what to expect at your appointment, and the vaccine rollout groups. Find information about COVID-19 vaccination for businesses and workers, including border and MIQ workers. Discover NZ Vaccine Facts, learn about vaccine development, safety and effectiveness, and find resources to download and share. Last updated 15 November 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. COVID (external link) (external link) COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Māori communities (external link) (external link) COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Pacific communities (external link) 3,798,124 First dose administered 3,413,839 Second dose administered 90% Eligible population with 1 dose 81% Eligible population with 2 doses         Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers. Last updated: 11 November 2021 at 12:10 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Vaccination is your pass to unlock summer. Find where's close to get your dose below — you can just walk in or drive through. Get 1 now. Get another in 3 weeks. You do not have to wait to get your COVID-19 vaccination. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get vaccinated without an appointment. Walk-in or drive-through vaccination centres We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. You can learn from the experts and get answers to your questions. COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Summer's a great time to hang out with friends and whānau. So it's important to support the people you love to be vaccinated. Talk to them about why you got vaccinated. There are some good pointers on how to have a positive conversation on this site. Help them find information from trusted sources, or give them practical support — offer them a lift to the vaccination centre, or buy them a coffee afterwards. How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine We all have a part to play in getting back to the gigs, events, concerts and festivals we love. If you want to get back to 'live', and attend an event this summer, you'll need to be vaccinated. #VaxForLive Facebook (external link) #VaxForLive Instagram (external link)  Karawhiua website (external link)  Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Last updated: 1 November 2021 at 12:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out how to get COVID-19 vaccination status certificates for use in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how you will be able to show proof of COVID-19 vaccination status when travelling overseas. Find out about using the website My Covid Record to access your COVID-19 vaccination records. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. My Covid Record is where you can access details of your COVID-19 vaccination status. The information comes from the data stored in the national COVID-19 Immunisation Register (CIR). At the moment, vaccination records will only show up if the doses were administered in New Zealand. We are working on a process where approved overseas vaccinations can be added to the CIR. You will need to provide evidence to your doctor or the Ministry of Health. More information on this process will be available soon. Accessing your NHI number as a QR code will make visiting places like COVID-19 testing sites quick and easy, as it allows us to scan the QR code to identify you. You will be able to access your most recent COVID-19 test results in My Covid Record. We will be displaying records that are positive or negative, not those that are pending or inconclusive. Digital vaccination certificates for use in New Zealand and when travelling internationally will be available in mid-November 2021. From mid-November, people aged 12 years and over will be able to create a My Covid Record account. They will need an email address and a valid identity document, such as a birth certificate or passport issued in New Zealand or Australia. If they cannot create an account but need proof of vaccination status, their parent or caregiver can call 0800 222 478 To access My Covid Record, you must first create a My Health Account. You can do this from My Covid Record. You will need your own email address to create an account. Currently, you must be at least 16 years old to create an account. From mid-November, people aged 12 and over will be able to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: Or an Australian: My Covid Record (external link) If you need help with My Covid Record, or have a query about your COVID-19 records, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 We take your privacy seriously. Only you can access your secure My Covid Record. Your account must be verified with a valid form of identification so we know it is actually you. By keeping your account safe, no one else will be able to access your records. My Vaccine Pass Vaccination certificates for international travel Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 11:33 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You will be able to get a vaccination status certificate for use in New Zealand from mid-November 2021. The easiest way to get your vaccine pass is by signing up to My Covid Record. Signing up to My Covid Record now will save you time when your vaccine pass will be available to download. My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. It will include a QR code that can be scanned at venues. You can print the certificate or save it to your phone. My Vaccine Pass will be available through the website My Covid Record or by calling 0800 222 478 . You will need a different vaccination status certificate for overseas travel. You may be required to show it in a range of public settings. This could include: Requiring My Vaccine Pass will be optional for many locations. You will not be required to show proof of vaccination to access essential services like: Vaccination certificates and the COVID-19 Protection Framework If you are unable to get the Pfizer vaccine for medical reasons, there will be an exemption process to follow to get a certificate. You may receive a purple vaccination card at your first appointment. This is not official proof of your vaccination — it is to remind you when your second appointment is. So they can be contactless, some vaccination sites are not providing these cards at Alert Levels 2, 3 and 4. My Covid Record Mandatory vaccinations for workers Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 11:36 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Your international travel vaccination certificate will be available from mid-November 2021. You will be able to request a digital certificate as proof of vaccination status for international travel. You can choose to print this and carry it in your passport or save it to a digital device. Your personal details on this certificate must match what is on your passport. Before travelling, please check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Vaccination certificates for international travel will be available in mid-November through My Covid Record. If you need written confirmation of your COVID-19 vaccination for urgent travel, you can request a letter from the Ministry of Health. We can only provide proof of vaccinations administered in New Zealand. Requesting proof of vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 10:00 am Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Discover NZ Vaccine Facts, learn about vaccine development, safety and effectiveness, and find resources to download and share. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines were developed, how we know they are effective, and how the Pfizer vaccine works. Young people aged 12 to 15 can get the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccination, providing consent, and vaccinations for children under 12. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Pfizer vaccine is proven to be highly effective in young people after 2 doses are administered. That means if they do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and less likely to transmit the virus to others. Across all age groups, studies have shown that about 95% of people who received both doses of the Pfizer vaccine were protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. For the 12 to 15-year-old age group, Pfizer has reported 100% efficacy against symptomatic COVID-19 infection. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. The Pfizer vaccine was provisionally approved for people in New Zealand aged 12 to 15 in June 2021. Medsafe only approves a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. Millions of people aged 12 to 15 have now been vaccinated around the world, and no additional safety concerns have been raised. Research and data on vaccinating young people — Ministry of Health (external link) Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. These side effects are generally mild and should only last 1 or 2 days. Side effects of the Pfizer vaccine As with all medicines, there is a risk of an allergic response after this vaccine. This is why everyone is asked to wait for at least 15 minutes. The Pfizer vaccine is safe for people with food allergies. Unlike some other vaccines, there is no food, gelatin or latex in the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine, and it is not grown in eggs. If someone has a history of an immediate allergic reaction to other products, including food, medicines or other vaccines, they can still have this vaccine but are asked to stay a little longer (at least 30 minutes) for monitoring. Vaccinators are trained to recognise these symptoms and have the appropriate equipment to treat people on site. While children aged 12 and above have the right to give their own consent, we recommend young people discuss vaccination with their parents, whānau or a trusted support person. A health professional will also discuss the vaccine with them before they get vaccinated and answer any questions they have. If they have a good understanding, they can say yes or no to getting the vaccine. If they would prefer, a parent or caregiver can provide consent instead. COVID-19 vaccine informed consent for young people aged 12-15 years policy statement (PDF, 176 KB) (external link) At this stage, a school-based COVID-19 vaccination programme is not planned for 2021. Children under 12 are not yet able to get the COVID-19 vaccine. While the Pfizer vaccine has been trialled overseas in children aged 5 to 11, it is not yet approved for use in New Zealand for this age group. You will need to wait until your child turns 12 to book a vaccine. At this stage, you cannot book an appointment before their 12th birthday. The age of the person will be checked before they are vaccinated.  COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Watch NZ Vaccine Facts What to expect when you get your vaccination  Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 12:56 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Answering your questions COVID-19 vaccines needed to be rolled out quickly, but that does not mean safety was compromised. The Pfizer vaccine we are using in New Zealand is held to the same high safety standards as any other medicine. COVID-19 vaccines are the most well-studied vaccines ever made. Nearly 50% of the world's population have had a COVID-19 vaccine, and more than 3 million people in Aotearoa have had their first Pfizer vaccine. This means we have lots of data to show the Pfizer vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety.      Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. Studies show that 95% of people who have received 2 doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms.       You might feel nervous about getting the vaccine, which is normal. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm, and it will be over very fast. You will then need to stay for at least 15 minutes so we can make sure you do not have an immediate reaction.       If you have questions we have not answered here, start by talking to your doctor. Your doctor is the health professional who knows you best. You can trust them to give you the most reliable and up to date information about the vaccine. Or, you can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days). Translators are available if English is not your first language. You do not have to wait to get your vaccination. You can book now or visit one of the many places around New Zealand where you can get vaccinated without an appointment. Book your vaccination Walk-in and drive-through centres Last updated: 14 October 2021 at 12:46 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan. Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 89 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB]  Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine Last updated: 23 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] Information for all New Zealanders about the COVID-19 vaccine and how to book a vaccination. Aotearoa New Zealand — it's your time [PDF, 700 KB] Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB]  We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. Watch all our campaign videos (external link) COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets Signs and posters for practising good hygiene How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine Last updated: 11 November 2021 at 1:37 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB]    Last updated: 21 October 2021 at 2:31 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Choose an episode In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. Learn more about how Aotearoa New Zealand responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, and why getting vaccinated is an important step towards protection from the virus. COVID-19 is a disease caused by the virus SARS-CoV-2. But what is a virus? And how do vaccines prepare you to fight off these ‘invaders’, so you are less likely to get sick if you catch it? Vaccines can be made in different ways. For COVID-19, Aotearoa New Zealand chose to use a type of vaccine known as an mRNA vaccine, produced by Pfizer. But what is an mRNA vaccine? It is natural for a virus to change and produce variations of itself. These are known as 'variants' and are all slightly different to the original virus. But will vaccines still work against them? Development of vaccines for COVID-19 was based on decades of research. The vaccines were produced quickly because testing was able to be streamlined. Before getting consent for use in Aotearoa New Zealand, vaccines must meet our strict standards for quality and safety. The benefits of getting a COVID-19 vaccine far outweigh the risks. A vaccination provides you, your whānau and your communities better protection against the virus. When everyone is vaccinated, this helps to end the pandemic. Booking your COVID-19 vaccination is easy. When you get the 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine, you may experience some side effects. So what are they? Note: The advice about the gap between doses has changed since this video was made. We are now advising all New Zealanders to consider a shorter gap of 3 weeks between their 2 doses, instead of the standard 6 weeks. Reducing this gap means more people can be fully vaccinated sooner, increasing our community immunity. Vaccination will help us get back to doing the things we love. But keep carrying out these simple steps so we stay on top of outbreaks: stay home if you are unwell and get a test, keep scanning in to keep track of where you have been, wear a face covering in situations where the virus could spread easily (like on public transport), and wash your hands regularly.  Watch episode 8 (external link) Last updated: 27 October 2021 at 5:58 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you’re pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link)   If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility — IMAC (external link) Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Last updated: 13 October 2021 at 3:35 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the Pfizer vaccine had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the Pfizer vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. You can have the third primary dose at least 8 weeks after your second dose. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. If it is 8 weeks since your second dose, and your doctor offers the COVID-19 vaccination, they can give you the third dose immediately. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have a history of anaphylaxis: What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. Last updated: 21 October 2021 at 6:12 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. There is a small number of people who cannot have the Pfizer vaccine for medical reasons. This is estimated to be only a few hundred people. There are also people who wish to have the option of another COVID-19 vaccine for different reasons. This includes people who need to be vaccinated because of the work they do. We are working towards making the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine available as a second option for people aged 18 and over. Like the Pfizer vaccine, you need 2 doses of AstraZeneca to be fully vaccinated. The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) Data from England shows that 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine is highly effective against the Delta variant. Evidence also shows that the few vaccinated people who do get the Delta variant tend to have a milder illness with fewer symptoms. COVID-19: About the Delta variant – Ministry of Health (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? As with any vaccine, the Pfizer vaccine may not fully protect everyone who gets it from COVID-19. But research shows that if you get your 2 doses, you will have a high degree of protection against infection. Booster doses This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of the Pfizer vaccine It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 12:45 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out about how to book your vaccination, walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres, and what to expect at your appointment. Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a vaccination at any Alert Level. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. You can get vaccinated at any Alert Level. For the best protection, it is important to get 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccination. Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get vaccinated at any Alert Level. If you are aged 12 or over, you can book your free COVID-19 vaccination now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. You can book on behalf of someone else — or help them with their booking — if you have their permission. The Book My Vaccine website is the fastest and easiest way to book and make changes to your appointments. It will take around 5 minutes to book your appointments. Book My Vaccine (external link)  Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. Appointment availability map (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email the Book My Vaccine team at booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Reschedule or cancel your booking Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . All calls are free, and the team are available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. It will take around 15 minutes to book your appointments. It is a good idea to have your NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. You can find your NHI number on a hospital letter, a prescription or prescription receipt, or you can call 0800 855 066 . Reschedule or cancel your booking As well as booked appointments, there are other ways to get vaccinated. This includes workplace vaccinations and other targeted vaccination events across the country. Some places offer walk-in or drive-through vaccinations, where you do not need to book. Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres For the best protection, it is important to get 2 doses of the vaccine. The standard gap between doses when booking is now 3 weeks or more . Learn more about getting your second dose Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Reschedule or cancel your appointment  Find out how to get COVID-19 vaccination status certificates for use in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. Vaccination status certificates If you need to be reminded of the time, date or venue for your appointments, you can try the following. If you booked with your email address or mobile number, your appointment details will have been sent to you. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. If you know your booking reference, you can check your appointment details through Book My Vaccine. Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Manage your appointments — Book My Vaccine (external link) They will be able to find your appointment details — you do not need to know your booking reference number. Call 0800 28 29 26 . Young people aged 12 to 15 became eligible for vaccination in August 2021. Each person getting vaccinated will need a separate appointment. Vaccination centres will do everything to accommodate 12 to 15-year-olds who do not have bookings, but it may not always be possible. Please call ahead, especially if your appointment is at a smaller site like a pharmacy. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 514 KB] COVID-19 vaccination and children If you are unwell on the day of your appointment, you will need to reschedule it. You can be vaccinated once you are well again. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. Reschedule your appointment COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres What to expect when you get your vaccination Information for Māori communities — Karawhuia (external link) Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 12:50 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. To reschedule or cancel an appointment online, you will need your booking reference. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. If you cannot find your booking reference, or you booked using a landline number, you can reschedule or cancel an appointment over the phone. Call the COVID Vaccine Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . Find your appointment details Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres Last updated: 24 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine rollout groups. People at greater risk will get vaccinated first. Once it is your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there is no cut off. Group 1 includes people working at the border or in MIQ, and the people they live with (household contacts). It is mandatory for workers at MIQ facilities, ports and airports who are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19 to get vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations How to book your vaccination The Government is expanding the list of Alert Level 4 workers who can get early access to a COVID-19 vaccination. These people will be included in Group 2. Group 2 will now also include frontline staff who interact with customers and transport and logistic services directly supporting the vaccination programme. You are also in Group 2 if you: How to book your vaccination You are in this group if you: How to book your vaccination Everyone aged 12 and over can book from Wednesday 1 September. Once it is your time, you can be vaccinated at any time — there is no cut off. We have ordered more than enough Pfizer vaccines for everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over to be able to be vaccinated by the end of the year. How to book your vaccination COVID-19 vaccines Last updated: 31 August 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The standard gap between doses is now 3 weeks or more . In August we extended the standard gap between first and second doses of the Pfizer vaccine from 3 to 6 weeks. This allowed us to give 1 dose (partial protection) to a larger number of people faster. A shorter time between the 2 doses is recommended in some cases — for example, when people are at higher risk of contracting COVID-19, or have a specific clinical treatment plan. Since then, the Delta outbreak has increased the risk of contracting COVID-19 for everyone in New Zealand, no matter where you are in the country. Because of this increased risk, we are now advising all New Zealanders to consider a shorter gap of 3 weeks between their 2 doses, instead of the standard 6 weeks. Reducing this gap means more people can be fully vaccinated sooner, increasing our community immunity. The minimum gap between doses will continue to be 21 days. If you already have vaccinations booked around 6 weeks apart, you can keep your second appointment as it is, or you can choose to change it. New bookings made through Book My Vaccine or via the COVID Vaccine Healthline will default back to 3 weeks between doses. The important thing is to get 2 doses of the vaccine to be fully vaccinated. If you have already been fully vaccinated and had your 2 doses closer together than 6 weeks, you have received your best protection. Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. You can also choose to get your second dose without booking an appointment at a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres Medsafe has granted provisional approval of a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine for people aged 18 and over. The approval is for administration of the booster for people aged 18 and older, at least 6 months following the second dose. The next step is for the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Group and the Ministry of Health to provide advice to Ministers by mid-November. This is to inform the use of booster doses, including the age limits and interval between when a person has their second dose and a booster dose. We understand the health and border workforce are particularly concerned about whether or not they will need a booster dose, and are working to provide clarity on this as soon as possible.  Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised will be eligible to get a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. This third dose will be optional, but is recommended. This primary third dose is different to a booster dose for the general population. Find more information on how to get a third primary dose Side effects Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 9:07 am Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. You can get vaccinated at any Alert Level. Some vaccination sites are specifically set up to support disabled people. These sites will have: Find an accessible vaccination centre The Healthpoint website lists COVID-19 vaccination centres around New Zealand. To find walk-in and drive-through centres, choose your location and select 'No appointment required'. Healthpoint (external link) Use the interactive map on the Karawhiua website to find a vaccination centre near you. To find walk-in and drive-through centres, choose your location, the day that suits you and 'Vax now' as your appointment type. Karawhiua (external link)  Even if you have booked your vaccination already, you can choose to go to a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre instead. Make sure to cancel any appointments you no longer need. We need to give as many people as possible the opportunity to get vaccinated.  Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Book your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 10:44 am Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can get your COVID-19 vaccination at any Alert Level. Vaccination sites will operate under Alert Level 2 and 3 conditions. This means you legally must wear a face covering to your appointment. Wearing a face covering A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: Note: If you are in Group 1, you will be asked to give written consent. This was the original consent process. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. The Pfizer vaccine is the only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. We have secured 10 million doses – enough for 5 million people to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? We will record information about your COVID-19 vaccination in our COVID Immunisation Register (CIR), including the batch number. If you need written confirmation of your vaccination, you can request a letter from the Ministry of Health. Vaccination status certificates Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) COVID-19: About the Delta variant — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of the Pfizer vaccine For the best protection, it is important to get 2 doses of the vaccine. The standard gap between doses is now 3 weeks or more . Learn more about getting your second dose Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we have agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 10:13 am Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: Some side effects are more common after the second dose. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, including myocarditis, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects — Ministry of Health (external link) You can: If you have concerns or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your doctor or other health professional, or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you are concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. COVID-19 vaccine: Report an adverse reaction (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand — Ministry of Health (external link) The Ministry of Health has launched the Post Vaccine Symptom Check, a mobile-based survey that will help monitor reactions to the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. Up to 10 percent of New Zealanders who receive a dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will be randomly selected to participate in the survey. Ministry of Health launches mobile-based vaccine monitoring survey (external link) What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine Vaccine side effects and reactions — Ministry of Health (external link) Information about the COVID-19 vaccine for parents and caregivers — Ministry of Health (external link) Information about COVID-19 vaccine — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Misinformation and scams Last updated: 3 November 2021 at 6:02 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information for businesses and workers about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. Find out about mandatory vaccinations for workers at the border and in managed isolation, and workers in the education and health and disability sectors. How employers can help their workers get vaccinated and information on workplace vaccinations. Your rights as an employee when you get the COVID-19 vaccination. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A law change is being introduced to provide a clear, risk based assessment process for businesses regarding whether they can require vaccinations of staff. The risk assessment will look at a variety of factors, including who staff interact with in their roles and how close their contact is with those people. All workers at businesses where customers need to show COVID-19 Vaccination Certificates, such as hospitality and close contact businesses, will also need to be vaccinated. Government backs business to vaccinate workforces Sectors that have mandatory vaccinations include: This may be because they work with populations that: Vaccination in these sectors is an important tool for reducing infection and transmission. For example, in healthcare, workers are more likely to be in contact with someone that has COVID-19, making it a high-risk sector. A high rate of vaccination in this sector will help to protect staff from getting sick and passing COVID-19 onto others, including those who are at risk from severe illness. Most people in these sectors are already vaccinated. But getting everyone in these sectors vaccinated is critical to the management of COVID-19. Workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings are required to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Find out who is affected and what they need to do: Border worker vaccinations It is mandatory for workers in the corrections sector to be vaccinated, including: Corrections workers needed to have their first dose by 6 November 2021. They must get their second dose by 8 December 2021. Certain roles in the education sector must be fully vaccinated. This includes anyone who works, volunteers, or does unpaid work in education and who either: Education services where workers, volunteers or unpaid workers need to be vaccinated include: The mandatory order does not include: Education workers must get their first dose by 15 November 2021. They must get their second dose by 1 January 2022. All registered schools that have students over the age of 12 need to maintain a register of students’ COVID-19 vaccination status from 1 November. This is a direction issued by the Secretary for Education under the Education Training Act 2020. It is not mandatory for students to be vaccinated. Under the Public Health Order, schools must maintain a register of the COVID-19 vaccination status of workers. Workers in health and disability roles and settings must be vaccinated. Health practitioners who need to be vaccinated include: Anyone who works closely with these health practitioners or who work in a facility providing healthcare also need to be vaccinated. These include: Care and support workers who go into people’s homes to provide services funded by the Ministry of Health, DHBs or ACC will need to be vaccinated. This includes any family, whānau or aiga who are paid to provide support or care in the disabled person’s home. Health and disability workers need their first dose by 15 November 2021. They must get their second dose by 1 January 2022. Some workers in health and disability, education and corrections may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Corrections workers can now apply for an exemption. Health and disability and education workers can apply for an exemption from 15 November 2021. To apply for an exemption, workers will need to have an assessment with a health practitioner and have written confirmation of this. A person conducting a business or undertaking (PCBU) may apply to the Minister for COVID-19 Response for an exception for a worker to prevent significant disruption to essential health services. Find out more about exemptions and exceptions from mandatory vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Mandatory vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Required Vaccinations Order | education.govt.nz (external link) Corrections COVID-19 vaccination programme | corrections.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | legislation.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 1:03 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 outlines these requirements. On 14 July 2021, following an amendment to the Vaccinations Order, the rules for vaccination against COVID-19 was broadened to most border workers. Including airports and ports. The Vaccinations Order is a legally binding health instruction which requires certain groups of border workers to be vaccinated to undertake ‘certain work’. From 30 September, any newly employed workers need to have their first dose of COVID-19 vaccination before starting work in a role covered by the Vaccinations Order. They must have their second dose within 35 days of their start date. All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: It also includes people doing work: Use this tool to find out if a worker must get vaccinated Three vaccines commonly administered overseas are now recognised for border workers in New Zealand that need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If a worker has had a full course of Moderna, AstraZeneca, Janssen or Pfizer, they can work on or around the border. If a border worker is partially vaccinated, they will need to have a further single dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine within 35 days of starting work. A border worker who has received the Janssen vaccine while overseas will not need a further dose of the Pfizer vaccine. As a border worker you have priority access to vaccination. Booking online through Book My Vaccine is the quickest way to make your vaccination appointments. Book My Vaccine You can also book by phone by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . There are also some vaccination centres where you can walk-in or drive-through without needing to book an appointment. Check Healthpoint to see if there's a vaccination centre in your area that offers this service. COVID-19 Vaccination centres | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) When your employer or PCBU enters your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR) the BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. A ll border workers , including those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports , and all of those who are contracted to provide services in the border environment , are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. Any border workers in roles affected by the Vaccinations Order must be vaccinated in order to continue with that work, unless they have an exemption or exception . The Order allows PCBUs to apply for a supply chain exemption for a named worker. The exemption came into force on 12 August 2021 . The Minister for COVID-19 Response decides if an exemption should be granted. Learn more about applying for a supply chain exemption | transport.govt.nz (external link) Guidance for PCBUs engaging with workers regarding vaccinations [PDF, 688 KB] COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Border worker testing | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 11 November 2021 at 4:07 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Getting vaccinated against COVID-19 is required for people carrying out certain work at the border. Mandatory vaccinations for border and MIQ workers On 1 May 2021, the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 made it a requirement for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. From 15 July 2021, it also became a legal requirement for border workers in certain roles to be vaccinated. This is required by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Amendment Order 2021. Vaccines commonly administered overseas are now recognised for border workers that need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If a worker has had a full course of Moderna, AstraZeneca, Janssen or Pfizer, they can work on or around the border. To find out if a worker is affected Answer the following questions. Your results will tell you if a worker must get vaccinated, when by, and how to book their vaccinations. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 – Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register — Ministry of Health (external link) Resources for the border sector — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccines and the workplace — Employment New Zealand (external link)  Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A fully vaccinated workforce will help keep your workplace safe from COVID-19. You can help workers make an informed decision and encourage them and their whānau to get the COVID-19 vaccine by: Information from Employment.govt.nz on vaccines and the workplace (external link) Your workers may have questions about the vaccine. You can help them find out more by: As part of the vaccine rollout, eligible workplaces will be able to provide vaccinations onsite. Not all workplaces will be able to offer COVID-19 vaccinations. Eligible workplaces will either: And will: Find more information about workplace vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations There may be religious or medical reasons why a person cannot be vaccinated. You cannot ask your worker to get vaccinated, unless they need to be vaccinated to perform a specific role in your business for health and safety reasons. You can ask employees if they have been vaccinated but they do not have to tell you if they have, or why they chose not to. You cannot discriminate against employees who choose not to get the vaccination. If your employees choose to tell you about their vaccination status, you cannot share this information with anyone without their permission. A person's vaccination status is personal information | employment.govt.nz (external link) The vaccine is one part of keeping everyone safe. Keep doing all the things you have been doing in your workplace to stop the spread of COVID-19. Encourage everyone to scan in, wash or sanitise their hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus This toolkit contains information and resources to help workplaces, non-profit groups and other organisations to support COVID-19 vaccinations in their communities. The toolkit will help you to support the national vaccine and immunisation programme — and most importantly, ensure your people are protected from COVID-19. COVID-19 Vaccine Business and workplace toolkit (external link) Vaccines and the workplace — Employment New Zealand (external link) How to decide what work requires a vaccinated employee — Worksafe (external link) Vaccine posters, flyers and social media tiles Last updated: 1 November 2021 at 4:23 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Pfizer vaccine is free and will be available to everyone in Aotearoa aged 12 and over. The vaccine helps protect you, your whānau and your workmates. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. If you need support to get vaccinated — for example, taking time off to get your vaccination — talk to your employer. Your employer cannot ask you to get a vaccine, unless there are health and safety reasons you need it for your job. If there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, then employers can decide that certain work must be done by vaccinated workers. To determine this, your employer will need to assess the COVID-19 exposure risk in consultation with you. If it is found that certain work can only be done by vaccinated workers, then your employer must allow you reasonable time to get vaccinated. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations If you have any medical concerns about getting the vaccine, talk to your doctor. Some workplaces may take part in workplace vaccinations as part of the vaccine rollout. If your employer is eligible, they will let you know when they will be offering employee vaccinations. You may be able to get your vaccination through your workplace. Your employer may ask you if you have been vaccinated, but you do not have to share your vaccination status with your employer. Your employer cannot discriminate against you if you choose not to get vaccinated. If you do tell your employer about your vaccination status, they must keep this information private. Once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. It is still important to keep doing all the things you have been doing to stop the spread of COVID-19. Scan in, wash or sanitise your hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus Last updated: 22 August 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. How to get medical advice, health services and emergency services at the different Alert Levels. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. How to recognise COVID-19 misinformation, scams and online harm. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. You can also contact us directly for help with your enquiries. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Symptoms can include one or more of the following: Less common symptoms may include: These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: A health professional will tell you whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting. If you are outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Information about testing for COVID-19 COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID on the Ministry of Health website. Long COVID (external link) Last updated: 17 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all Alert Levels. You can work with your doctor or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) Getting your vaccination is an important step you can take to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Vaccines help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and reduce your chances of getting seriously ill or dying if you do get COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you should still take precautions, including limiting interactions with others, wearing a face covering in public, and staying home where possible. Book your COVID-19 vaccination If you have any concerns about how you will react to the vaccine talk to your doctor. Underlying medical conditions include: Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Anyone can call Age Concern New Zealand on 0800 65 2105 to get advice and support. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your doctor or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking — Ministry of Health (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you are pregnant and work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) Find more information on maternity care at the different Alert Levels on the Ministry of Health website. Information for people who are pregnant, and those who have recently given birth (external link) There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support for individuals and whānau At Alert Level 1, there is freedom to move around, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. At Alert Level 2, we need to reduce our contact with others. There is some freedom to move around, but you should follow public health measures. If you are an at-risk person, you will need to take extra precautions when doing this. At Alert Level 3 we need to restrict our contact with others. Y ou must stay within your household bubble whenever you are not at work or school. We recommend people at higher risk stay at home other than for essential personal movement. This can include things such as accessing essential services like healthcare. You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will change to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your doctor if you need further help understanding your level of risk. At Alert Level 4, you need to stay home. Everyone must stay in their bubble. You can leave your home for essential personal movement, such as accessing healthcare or going to the supermarket. The Student Volunteer Army Grocery Delivery Service is available nationwide to people who are self-isolating or who have no other way to access food. To order: Access to food or essential items Last updated: 11 October 2021 at 10:28 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are from a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations, such as the Delta variant, can spread more easily than the original virus and cause more severe disease. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 COVID-19 causes 2 major issues that cause harm when someone is infected — a viral attack on the body and in some cases an immune reaction. Studies for new treatments cover both issues and concentrate on 3 areas. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | health.govt.nz (external link) Pharmac is funding appropriate COVID-19 treatments for New Zealanders. The agency decides which medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand. Pharmac has secured treatments for COVID-19, including: Medsafe will assess these medicines before treatment for COVID-19. Find more information on Pharmac's website: Pharmac is funding COVID-19 treatments (external link) Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy for dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic is a sustained approach to keep it out, find it, and stamp it out. We do this through: Find out more about New Zealand’s elimination strategy | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination is the next step in protecting people from COVID-19. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 9:53 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. Including what close, casual plus, and casual contacts need to do. Help protect Aotearoa by encouraging staff and visitors to scan in every time they visit your business. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, your business and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. Use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet to keep track of where you have been if you do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you have been near or were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. Your level of exposure will depend on what actions you need to take. This will often be staying home and getting a test. The day you are exposed is day 0. A negative test means you do not have COVID-19. A positive test means you do have COVID-19. Public Health will contact you. Get tested for COVID-19 There are 3 types of 'contacts': The Ministry of Health will have advice for all contacts on what they need to do. Anyone who was at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19 is considered a contact. The Ministry of Health will have locations of interest and advice for people who have been at those locations. It is important that you follow the health advice and get a test as needed. Contact tracing locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) You will need to check: Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 if you have been at a location of interest or have symptoms. If you have difficulty breathing, call an ambulance on 111.    Close Contacts are at higher risk of getting COVID-19. Their contact happened when the person with COVID-19 was infectious. Close Contacts may live, work or have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone with COVID-19. Close Contacts fact sheet [PDF, 333 KB] Casual Plus Contacts are people who were at a location of interest at the same time and were near someone infectious with COVID-19. Casual Plus Contacts are at lower risk than Close Contacts, but the risk for transmission is still high. Casual Plus Contacts fact sheet [PDF, 295 KB] Casual Contacts are people who have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone infectious with COVID-19. But they may not have been near the infectious person. Casual Contacts are at lower risk of getting sick with COVID-19. Casual Contacts fact sheet [PDF, 107 KB] If you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19, you will need to watch for symptoms for 14 days after you were last near that person. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Full list of COVID-19 symptoms Secondary contacts are household members or someone that has had significant contact with someone who has been at a location of interest. If you live with someone who has been at a location of interest at the specified dates and times, you legally must: These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are a secondary contact, you do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. If you do get symptoms: You will need to continue staying at home until you get a negative result and it has been 24 hours since you have had any symptoms. You will need to self-isolate while you wait for a negative result from a COVID-19 test. You may also be told to isolate if you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. If you are told to self-isolate by a health official, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) Essential personal care services, such as toileting, washing and feeding, can continue. If you are identified as a contact of a case, carers must use good hand hygiene and physical distancing of 2 metres when possible. If this is not possible, they must wear personal protection equipment like disposable gloves and masks. If you are unable to self-isolate at home, your local public health official can help determine where you are best able to self-isolate safely. This may be in a managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facility. These facilities are in hotels in different locations across New Zealand. You can find more information and advice about close and casual contacts on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme Last updated: 17 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. More about contact tracing — Ministry of Health website (external link) A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. If you are identified as a contact and use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you may get a notification that will provide advice and more information. The Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit may also contact you. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19       Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you are considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand — Ministry of Health website (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a COVID-19 test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. The person with COVID-19 is interviewed along with the people they live and work with. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes. If they have, this gives us all the information needed to: It helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code was not available. If they have not used the app, there is a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be sent via the app, warning others of the risk. If you have scanned in somewhere that someone with COVID-19 has been at the same time, you will see a yellow alert on the app dashboard. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, and it identifies you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you will see an orange alert on the dashboard. Find out more about the different NZ COVID Tracer alerts you can get — Ministry of Health website (external link) If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app will get information telling them they may have had exposure to COVID-19. This will include information on what you should do next to protect yourself, your whānau and the community. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been If you own or run a business:   Last updated: 4 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. You may be interested in Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 has visited. You are a contact if you have been at a location of interest at the specified time. Check the locations of interest and follow the health advice of the Ministry of Health. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link)  If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately isolate at your home or accommodation and either: Record your visit online (external link) If you record your visit online, you do not need to call Healthline. Contact tracers will call or email you and let you know what you need to do. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live with someone who has been at a location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: Members of the household who were not at a location of interest can only leave home to exercise. They can exercise while waiting for the results of their test if they keep 2 metres apart from others. People in the household are not permitted to go to the supermarket or visit other essential services. We encourage you to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to drop off groceries and other essential supplies to you. If you work in a managed isolation or quarantine facility, or you provide an essential health service, you can leave home to go to work earlier than day 5. You must meet other criteria. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 gives special powers to a medical officer of health to prevent the outbreak or spread of any infectious disease. A Section 70 order is issued to make sure you understand it is very important that you follow the advice given by public health units. A Section 70 order allows a medical officer of health to require those in the order to: People must follow the order immediately. Find out more about Section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) Exposure events sometimes do not need to be made public, because everybody there is known and can be followed up. There are many more exposure events than there are locations of interest, and not all exposure events become locations of interest. If you've been in Australia, check the locations of interest for the states or territories you are in. ACT (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) The Ministry of Health has guidance to support New Zealand businesses that have been identified as a location of interest after a visit by a confirmed or probable COVID-19 case. In most cases, a public health official will call and talk you through what this means for your business. However, there may be some occasions, for example outside business hours, when it may not be possible to contact you immediately. Guidance for businesses | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 28 October 2021 at 4:45 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you have been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there is a case of COVID-19 in the community, and stop it from spreading. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to: Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. Bluetooth tracing does not replace scanning QR codes — you still need to keep track of where you have been. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people you have been near. Think of it like your phone is giving a digital high-five to other people's phones. You do not have to have the app open for it to work, but you do need to have Bluetooth on your phone turned on. It does not use mobile data or drain your phone battery. Bluetooth tracing is entirely anonymous. No personal or identifying information swaps between phones. Bluetooth tracing cannot track your movements. No one will ever see who you have been near, or when or where you were near them, even if you test positive for COVID-19. How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link)     Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we will be. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own paper notebook. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of: Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet If you have questions or feedback about the app or any problems using it: At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster if you are a: Get your QR code poster Information on record keeping and contact tracing for businesses Get information about the NZ COVID Tracer app in other languages and alternate formats. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you are ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you want a booklet and cannot print your own. If you are an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . Last updated: 19 October 2021 at 11:03 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. Community-based testing for COVID-19 is available through district health boards and public health units across the country. What to expect if you test positive for COVID-19. This includes going into quarantine, what to expect when you are there, and when you can safely return home. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Healthpoint lists testing locations by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Search for a testing location near you (external link) Last updated: 2 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 3, teachers and support staff must receive a negative COVID-19 test result within 5 days of returning to school.  This can be either a nasal swab or throat swab. If you live in Stratford or you have recently visited Stratford, and you have COVID-19 symptoms — no matter how mild — you should get a test. There are additional pop-up clinics open around the Taranaki region this weekend. If you are in the Taupō area and you have symptoms — no matter how mild — you should get tested, even if you are vaccinated. This is due to a positive COVID-19 case in the community. If you have symptoms — no matter how mild, you should get tested, even if you are vaccinated. This is to help rule out undetected community transmission. If you live in the suburbs of Ranui, Sunnyvale, Kelston, Birkdale, Manurewa and Mangere you should get tested as soon as possible if you have any symptoms that might be COVID-19, even if you are fully vaccinated. This is to help rule out undetected community transmission. Auckland testing locations — Auckland Regional Public Health Service (external link)   Check the locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website and follow the instructions on what to do. Locations of interest in New Zealand — health.govt.nz (external link) If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: By calling Healthline, people who have been at locations of interest are logged into the contact tracing system. This means you can get your test results back faster. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. Most workers who need to cross Alert Level boundaries must get tested. Testing of workers when crossing Alert Level boundaries Most people aged 12 and over need to get a test before permitted personal travel from the Alert Level 3 area to the Alert Level 2 area. You do not need a test when travelling out of the Alert Level 2 area. There is an exception for people who travel into Auckland for a medical appointment (including vaccinations), and then leave to return home. They do not need a test when leaving Auckland. Getting tested when crossing the boundary From 15 November, teachers and support staff at schools in Alert Level 3 will need to undergo weekly surveillance testing until they are fully vaccinated. The deadline for being fully vaccinated is 1 January 2022. This testing can be: If you need a test, you can get one at: Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. When you go for a test, wear a face covering, scan in using the QR code on site, and if possible take your NHI number with you. This is likely to speed up the process. You can find your NHI number on a hospital letter, a prescription or prescription receipt. The Ministry of Health has also set up a new 0800 number that you can call to find out: 0800 855 066 . If you are told to get a test by a health official or fall under mandatory testing, your COVID-19 test is free of charge. For example if you work at the border or are a contact of a confirmed case. Testing for these purposes is free regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test Surveillance testing by the business sector, which is outside of mandatory requirements, is not part of the public health response to COVID-19 and is not free. You will need to provide contact details so that you can get your test results. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it is helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by your doctor or Healthline that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. If you need to get a test for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There is more than one way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get a test, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they are testing. Assessment and testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) When you get a test, your health professional will tell you how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If a result is positive, you will hear back within 48 hours. Negative tests can take a bit longer to return. Once they are completed, either a community health professional or your doctor will let you know. If you have not received your result after 5 days, please contact your doctor or the testing centre. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will tell you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) Financial support for individuals and wh ānau Staying at home if you are sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you are feeling unwell, it is critical you stay at home and recover. If you get a COVID-19 test, your health professional will tell you whether you need to self-isolate. If they tell you to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) In New Zealand there are 3 types of tests for COVID-19: Government to pilot antigen testing with private sector Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you are subject to regular testing. The vaccine is highly effective if people have both doses. Studies have shown that 95% of people who received both doses of the vaccine were protected against getting seriously ill. If you do get COVID-19, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill or spread the virus to others. Research is still ongoing to determine whether a vaccinated person can still pass the virus to someone else. So we must assume there is still risk of transmission. The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border| health.govt.nz (external link) Some countries need travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test The Ministry of Health publishes data on: This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including at-risk communities or groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 11:12 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. They will tell you what to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you are feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. What self-isolating means (external link) If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus from spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise, they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme If you test positive for COVID-19, you may be able to isolate at home. A medical officer of Health will decide if this is appropriate for you. You will need to meet certain criteria to isolate at home. If you are isolating at home because you have tested positive for COVID-19, and you need urgent medical help, please call 111. Hospital care and ambulance services are free for those with COVID-19. By calling 111, you can get the care you need. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) Stay home if you are sick  You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus from spreading to others, and make sure you are well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained in cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely watch your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will help you in making arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It is up to you and your family/household to decide: A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. If you have pets that will need to be looked after while you are away from home, you will have time to make these arrangements. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) On arrival, you will get a 'welcome pack' with information about what to expect during your stay. You will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments, so you don not need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you are unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to the hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or any COVID-19 related medical costs. The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that did not need hospital care, this will be: If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme — Work and Income (external link) Financial support for individuals and whānau Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 1:48 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you are concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing call Plunketline on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  Emergency services will operate at all Alert Levels. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face covering. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. Information about what to do in an emergency At all Alert Levels healthcare facilities and businesses will take precautions against the risk of COVID-19 transmission. These can include: When accessing healthcare, you must take precautions against the spread of COVID-19, including: Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. At Level 4 , cancer centres must follow the physical distancing guidelines which may impact how treatment is delivered. It is extremely important that we protect people living with cancer from the risk of catching COVID-19. Te Aho o Te Kahu, New Zealand's Cancer Control Agency, provides more information about Cancer care during COVID-19. Learn more about Cancer care during Alert Levels 1-4 (external link) Routine screening will be paused for breast and cervical screening services. Bowel screening will continue. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) Healthcare and disability services will run as normal at Alert Level 1. Health and disability services at Alert Level 1 | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, where possible health and disability services will open and operate as normal. Emergency care is still available, but some appointments will move to online or over the phone where possible. Some non-urgent services or treatment may be rescheduled. Community health services and screening services will continue. Disability and aged care services continue under Alert Level 2, with extra consideration given to how at-risk people are. Health and disability services at Alert Level 2 | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 3, we need to restrict our movements. You should only leave your home for essential personal movement, such as accessing healthcare. Healthcare services will open and operate normally, where possible. Healthcare businesses, such as pharmacies, can open. Hospitals will remain open for emergency care. Some non-urgent services or treatment may be rescheduled. When visiting a healthcare facility at Alert Level 3, you must wear a face covering. Any appointments with a medical professional will need to be online or over the phone, where possible. Community health services and screening services can continue. Some disability and aged care services can continue but will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Health and disability services at Alert Level 3 | health.govt.nz (external link) Updated guidance now allows you to see specialised health care providers face-to-face, such as physiotherapists, chiropractors and osteopaths. You must take precautions against the spread of COVID-19. At Alert Level 4, you can only leave your house for essential personal movements, for example accessing healthcare like GPs, cancer services, disability and aged support services. Healthcare facilities will open and operate, where possible. You can access the treatments and medicines that you need to stay well. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it is important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs at any Alert Level. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. If you need medical assistance, phone your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 first. You can travel to a healthcare facility, but it is recommended you call the facility before you go, so you know what to do when you get there. For example, you might need to use a certain entrance, or to wait outside in your car until called. Most consultations will happen over the phone or by videoconference to stop any risk of COVID-19 spreading by person-to-person contact. Health and disability services at Alert Level 4 | health.govt.nz (external link) Call your doctor if you need a routine appointment or a repeat prescription for your regular medication. Your doctor can set up an appointment online or over the phone. Pharmacies will open, even in Alert Level 4. If you need to go to your local pharmacy for medication, call them first to make sure you can go instore. If you are an at-risk group you may want to ask someone to pick up your medications for you. At Alert Level 4, disability and aged care services will continue. Some home help may be available if it can be accessed safely. Carers are permitted to work at Alert Level 4. If you are a carer travelling to provide care or support for a person who is in a critical or terminal condition, we recommend you carry proof of your travel. This can include a letter from a medical professional confirming there is a person who needs urgent care or support and your destination. At Alert Level 4, health services will continue to operate. However, there may be some changes to the way you receive medical care if you are pregnant or have recently given birth. Contact your midwife or doctor if you have any concerns. When you give birth, maternity facilities may have restrictions on the number of visitors and support people you can have with you. Last updated: 21 October 2021 at 1:45 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Emergency services will operate at all Alert Levels. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face covering. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly. Maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance and wear a face covering, if possible. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link)  If your region is at Alert Level 3 or 4 or you are isolating at home because of a public health order, you need to be prepared if there is a natural disaster. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. Last updated: 21 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Getting through together | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 24 September 2021 at 12:06 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and the vaccine work against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. I f you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 9:03 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine from a number of trusted sources, including: Find answers to all your vaccine questions, including how safe it is and what side effects you might get, and watch videos about vaccines. COVID-19 vaccines questioned answered | covid19.govt.nz Check out the health advice for you about COVID-19, vaccines, testing, how to take care of yourself and much more. COVID-19: Health advice for the public | health.govt.nz (external link) Find trusted information for you and your whānau on Karawhiua. It is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. Karawhiua | karawhiua.nz (external link) When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. Watch COVID-19 vaccine educational videos to find out about the vaccination journey and how the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine works. COVID-19 information from the Ministry for Pacific Peoples | mpp.govt.nz (external link) Your local district health board (DHB) has information about health and disability services in your region, including information on vaccinations. District health board websites | health.govt.nz (external link) You can also keep up to date by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (IMAC) provides New Zealanders with a local source of independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research regarding vaccine-preventable diseases and the benefits and risks of immunisation. Immunisation Advisory Centre | immune.org.nz (external link) The World Health Organization works worldwide to promote health, keep the world safe, and serve the vulnerable. World Health Organization | who.int (external link) You may need to engage with someone or a group who are spreading false and misleading information within your community or online. It is easy to feel compelled to go and directly confront them. This is not the ideal approach and it may not always be obvious to them what information is not true or factual. Here are some tips on how you might address the situation: Download printed guidance for responding to false information. Guidance for responding to false information [PDF, 759 KB] There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 9:05 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. We can all help stop the spread of misinformation by reporting fake accounts, or pages and domains that repeatedly post or share misinformation. Most misinformation and disinformation is legal. And people have the right to express their opinion. But if you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: Report to Netsafe any online harms including bullying and harassment, misinformation and hate speech/extremism. Report harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Misinformation, including leaflets and scams, can also be reported to CERT NZ. Report COVID-19 misinformation (external link)  Scammers look for ways to trick people into sharing their personal or financial details. Scams and fraud exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police on 105 . Call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link)  There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 9:07 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There is misinformation and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what it means. There are 3 kinds of misinformation: You might see all of them on social media, including memes, on websites, videos, and in publications, like pamphlets that arrive in your letterbox. They can cause harm because you might make decisions about your health based on the incorrect information that you read or hear. Often misinformation is not deliberately created to harm you. But it is really important that you do not share it, so that it does not spread. Online bullying (also known as cyberbullying) occurs when 1 person uses digital technology to send, post or publish content intended to cause harm to another person. It can include: Netsafe describes distressing content as content that is hateful content, sexual material or illegal material (like age-restricted material or extreme violence). Offensive or illegal content may include topics, images or other information that could be prohibited in New Zealand. The content can also be upsetting to a young person when they discover it. It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. Netsafe has more information, advice and resources about how to stay safe online. Netsafe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Keep It Real Online has information for tamariki (children) and rangatahi (young people) about being safe online, and also has tools and resources for parents and caregivers. Keep It Real Online | keepitrealonline.govt.nz (external link) You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 9:04 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. With COVID-19 in some communities, there are simple steps that can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. If you are feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. If in doubt, rule it out. Scan QR codes wherever you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Using the app will help our health services reach people quickly to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. They are useful when physical distancing is harder. You legally must wear a face covering in some locations. Keep your community safe, and cover for each other. Good hygiene helps prevent the spread of COVID-19. This includes washing your hands often, coughing and sneezing into your elbow, and cleaning surfaces. When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself. You are also doing your bit by reducing the risk of passing on COVID-19 to your whānau, friends and community. Keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has had exposure to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] You can find QR code posters at many locations you visit. Scan these using the NZ COVID Tracer app to create a private digital diary of the places you visit. The app keeps us one step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we will be. You can also turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you have been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Think of it like your phone is giving a digital high-five to other people's phones. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Learn more about the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of: Download or order the NZ COVID Tracer booklet At all Alert Levels, certain businesses and event organisers legally must have a way for you to record that you have entered their premises or attended a gathering or event. Locations legally must have more than one way for you to record your visit, especially if you are not able to scan QR codes. Ways you will be able to record your visit include: Businesses still need to continue displaying a QR code poster even if it is not required to collect customer records. Record keeping and contact tracing for businesses Get your QR code poster   Last updated: 4 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, or after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. It is important to wash your hands: Using hand sanitiser is effective at killing germs and viruses when done correctly. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you are outside of your home but can be expensive or difficult to find in an emergency. Make sure you use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol and rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds. Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. A face covering also helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Clean surfaces regularly. This includes items frequently touched like door handles, light switches and phones. Cleaning surfaces is important because, like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first. It is best to use a disinfectant. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. The risk of becoming infected with COVID-19 increases the closer you are to a person and the longer you are close to that person. The risk is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. The risk is lower outside when there are fewer people, and when you are further away from others. Being in enclosed spaces with poor ventilation is when fine particles containing virus can build-up. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 1:11 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Physical distancing, sometimes known as 'social distancing', is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health, you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. Even if you are wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. It is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you are feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will affect particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and are not whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Outside of your home, you legally must keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times, as much as possible. Workers legally must maintain a 1 metre physical distance in the workplace, as much as possible. Outside of your home keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. Last updated: 5 October 2021 at 11:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. Staying at home if you are sick is one way to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. Symptoms can include one or more of the following: Less common symptoms may include: These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. COVID-19 symptoms You will need to self-isolate while you wait for a negative result from a COVID-19 test. You may also be told to isolate if you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. If you are told to self-isolate by a health official, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) Essential personal care services, such as toileting, washing and feeding, can continue. If you are identified as a contact of a case, carers must use good hand hygiene and physical distancing of 2 metres when possible. If this is not possible, they must wear personal protection equipment like disposable gloves and masks. If you are unable to self-isolate at home, your local public health official can help determine where you are best able to self-isolate safely. This may be in a managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facility. These facilities are in hotels in different locations across New Zealand. You legally must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag. This bag can then go into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag. Then put that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. More information about COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More information about COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme Last updated: 15 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Face coverings can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. You must wear a face covering in some locations. Keep your community safe, and cover for each other. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. Face coverings are particularly useful in poorly ventilated indoor spaces and when physical distancing is hard. They stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are one part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing, vaccination, and other healthy habits, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. You need to wear a face covering at certain places when you are out and about. For example when shopping. At Alert Level 2, 3 and 4 you must wear a face covering if you work in a public-facing job. Some people may not be able to wear a face covering. There are also times when you do not need to wear one. If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to prevent you from spreading diseases to others. It could also help protect you from becoming infected. A face covering needs to go over your nose and mouth. A suitable reusable or disposable face covering is needed to help protect against the airborne spread of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended as it is less effective than a face covering that covers your nose and mouth. Dust masks are also not recommended, as they have a one-way valve which can allow droplets to spread. Many stores and online retailers now offer face coverings. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to buy one. You can make one with what you have available at home. How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 12:30 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Take a clean piece of cotton material — for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase. Cut into a square, if it is not already. Fold it from the top inwards a third of the way down. Fold from the bottom inwards, a third of the way up. You should have an rectangle of material, folded into 3 layers. Loop your hair ties or elastic bands over the ends of the folded material. Leave enough room in the middle to comfortably cover your mouth and nose. Fold the outer edges inwards. This adds an extra layer of material over your mouth and nose. It also helps hold the face covering together. Pick up the face covering by the bands. Loop them over 1 ear at a time. Wear the face covering with the join against your face. Make your own face covering with just a handkerchief or t-shirt and 2 hair ties. Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut out a rectangle from the water-resistant fabric for the middle layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take 1 piece of your cotton fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of cotton fabric together. Make sure the cotton that will be on the outside of your face covering is turned inwards here. Lay the water-resistant fabric on top of your cotton fabric. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face covering in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. Last updated: 7 October 2020 at 11:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Never share face coverings with other people. We do not recommend face coverings be worn by: Do not re-use a mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. Before you put on your face covering, clean and dry your hands. Use either: Make sure it is: Place the face covering over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face covering should: Use either: If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your face covering down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: Take your face covering off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the face covering, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth face coverings by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the face covering completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp face covering. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face coverings. Use either: The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face covering safely. Last updated: 26 August 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. We encourage you to wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from others, like in crowded indoor places. You must wear a face covering when: We encourage you to wear a face covering and keep 2 metres distance from others when leaving your home. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. You must wear a face covering when: In general, face coverings should be worn whenever you can. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. We know people want to do the right thing, in these locations you are not required to wear a face covering, but we strongly encourage you to if possible. People cannot eat while wearing a face covering. As a customer at a cafe or restaurant you will be seated and separated. You are not required to wear a face covering, but are encouraged to wear one when you are not eating or drinking. For example, when entering the premises or getting up to go to the bathroom. Employees must wear a face covering. If you are going to a barber, beauty therapist, hairdresser or accessing another close contact business, a face covering can become impractical. You are encouraged to wear one if possible, but it is not required. Employees must wear a face covering. When exercising you do not need to wear a face covering. This includes outside, at a gym, group exercise or dance class. You do not need to wear a face covering at schools or tertiary education facilities, but we strongly encourage anyone 12 and over to wear a face covering. You also do not need to wear a face covering when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. But you are strongly encouraged. You do not need to wear a face covering at these events, but we strongly encourage you to. We encourage you to wear a face covering and keep 2 metres distance from others when leaving your home. At Alert Level 3 you must still stay in your household bubble. You must wear a face covering when: When exercising you do not need to wear a face covering, but we encourage you to take one with you if physical distancing is difficult. We encourage you to wear a face covering and keep 2 metres distance from others when leaving your home. At Alert Level 4 you must stay home. You must wear a face covering when: When exercising you do not need to wear a face covering, but we encourage you to take one with you if physical distancing is difficult. There are some situations where a face covering does not need to be worn. We also know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to access businesses and services. In general, face coverings should be worn whenever you can. The Delta variant is more transmissible by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering If you need to remove your mask to communicate with a person who is deaf, hard of hearing or who is deafblind, you can. If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 2:43 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You must wear a face covering if you are a driver of: You must wear a face covering if you have any customer contact when you are at work. You must wear a face covering if you work: If you work in an environment that does not have customers or is not public facing, you do not need to wear a face covering. For example, in an office building or on a factory floor. However, if you have contact with customers at any point, for example at reception or in the lift, you must wear a face covering. This includes if you meet with clients regularly, such as lawyers and accountants. We encourage you to wear a face covering if it is hard to maintain physical distance. Working safely at Alert Level 2 Employees working in public-facing places such as swimming pools, event facilities (such as cinemas or conference centres), or gyms are encouraged but not required to wear a face covering. You must wear a face covering if you have any customer contact while at work. You must wear a face covering if you work: Working safely at Alert Level 3 You must wear a face covering if you have any customer contact when you are at work. You must wear a face covering if you work: Working safely at Alert Level 4 We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. If a customer enters the business premises without a face covering, you should be mindful of this. If you are a customer-facing worker and cannot wear a face covering, you do not need to wear a face covering. We encourage you to work with your employer to see if there are other health and safety actions that can be taken. You can also apply for an exemption card. In general, face coverings should be worn whenever you can. The Delta variant is more transmissible by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering Face covering requirements | business.govt.nz (external link) Face covering posters for businesses  If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. Healthcare workers face covering requirements are not included in the Pubic Health Order that outlines face coverings. There are separate personal protective equipment (PPE) requirements at healthcare facilities. PPE use in health and disability care settings (external link) Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 9:12 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are some situations where a face covering does not need to be worn. We also know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to food, pharmacies and other services. In general, you should wear a face covering whenever you can. The Delta variant is more transmissible by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. An exemption card is available that you can show to transport operators, retailers and service providers. Exemption cards are not mandatory but make it easier whenever you need to explain that a face covering is unsuitable for you. Sometimes the reason why a face covering is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face covering. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face covering. If you cannot wear a face covering, you need to keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. Last updated: 28 October 2021 at 5:09 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This page contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. A lot of stuff changed when COVID-19 turned up in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out what it means for you and the things that are important in your life. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Information and advice translated into different languages. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. All COVID-19 vaccination information is constantly under review. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description Order information about COVID-19 in braille format. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description An audio description adds an audio track to videos to describe essential information that is only presented visually on the screen. Audio descriptions help people who: Find out more about audio description (external link) Find out more about the COVID-19 vaccine Find out why it is important to wear a face covering Find out about Bluetooth tracing and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. Last updated: 9 November 2021 at 2:10 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you need content in braille, please contact Blind Citizens NZ. Last updated: 31 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information in Easy Read format. This page has lots of links to Easy Read information. Scroll down the page and click the boxes below to find more information. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Find out more about the COVID-19 virus Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you get your vaccine Find out what you need to do if you are travelling to and from New Zealand Find out what you need to do at the different Alert Levels Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19 Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing The COVID-19 Protection Framework will replace the current Alert Level system that the Government uses to respond to COVID-19 in New Zealand. Last updated: 9 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 vaccination record card has been updated. The new design has one of the corners cut. You may still receive the old design while vaccination centres use up stock. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 19 October 2021 at 11:12 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 16 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 12 October 2021 at 1:04 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities.    Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 16 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 10 November 2021 at 3:57 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities.  Last updated: 9 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities.   Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 9 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines Find out more about the COVID-19 virus Find out what you need to do if you are travelling quarantine-free to and from New Zealand Information in about what you need to do at the different Alert Levels Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19 Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing Last updated: 16 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Last updated: 15 October 2021 at 10:39 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. As of 24 July 2021, quarantine-free travel with Australia has been suspended . Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) Find out more about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you get your vaccine Find out what you need to do in NZSL if you are travelling to and from New Zealand Find out what you need to do at the different Alert Levels Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out what support you can get to look after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. Last updated: 14 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Getting the right information (external link) The Delta variant (external link) Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. COVID-19 vaccines (external link) COVID-19 vaccine simplified guide (external link) Change to the recommended vaccine dose gap (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) Last updated: 14 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Services and support (external link) Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It is OK to ask for help (external link) It is OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) Last updated: 4 October 2021 at 12:13 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) Auckland is still at Alert Level 3 (12 October 2021) (external link) Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) Living at Alert Level 4 (external link) Last updated: 14 October 2021 at 12:29 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Face coverings and masks (external link) Why we wear a mask or face covering on planes and public transport (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Self-isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Simple steps you can take (external link) Getting tested (external link) Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app: how contact tracing keeps us safe (external link) Bluetooth Tracing: Early Warning (external link) Locations of interest (external link) Last updated: 6 October 2021 at 3:22 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. How does quarantine-free travel work? (external link) Quarantine-free travel from Australia has been suspended (external link) Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free (external link)  Last updated: 14 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A lot of stuff changed when COVID-19 turned up in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out what it means for you and the things that are important in  your life. Many of us are finding things tricky at the moment. It's OK to ask for help. Find support and tips for how to cope. Alert Level changes can mean that your schooling or uni study changes too. Find out what to do. Do these easy things to keep yourself and others safe. For many people, COVID-19 has meant changes to their job. If you can't work, find out about what support you could get. Support is available from different communities. Find out where you can go. We're on TikTok, Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and LinkedIn. Last updated: 1 October 2021 at 1:13 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Alert Levels set out the different things we all have to do if there are some cases of COVID-19 in the community. At Alert Level 1 life will feel pretty much like normal. You still need to wear a mask if you go shopping, or to public indoor spaces, like the cinema. Generally, it is a good idea to wear a mask if you are around people you do not know in crowded places. It helps stop the virus spreading from person to person. What to do at Alert Level 1 (external link)  At Alert Level 2 you will be going to school as usual. You can play your usual sport, meet up with friends, and travel to different parts of the country. It is a good idea to wear a mask when you are out and about, and in some places like supermarkets you must wear one before you go in. What to do at Alert Level 2 (external link)  At Alert Level 3, you could be learning at home and everyone else in your household bubble will probably still be staying home too. The good thing is that you can get takeaways at Alert Level 3, but you won't be able to hang out with all your friends. What to do at Alert Level 3 (external link)  Alert Level 4 means everyone needs to stay in their bubble. You will be learning from home, and your parents or caregivers will probably be at home all day too. You can still go outside and get some fresh air, just stay close to where you live. You will have to wait to see your friends in person again, but you can still video call them. What to do at Alert Level 4 (external link) When 90% of eligible New Zealanders are vaccinated, there will be changes to what things vaccinated people can do. We'll be freer to move and live with less disruption. Find out more about it here: The COVID-10 Protection Framework Last updated: 22 October 2021 at 4:11 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Do these easy things to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19, so that we all get back to doing the things we love. There are easy steps we can all take to help keep us healthy, like getting vaccinated, wearing a mask and scanning when we go places. It helps to understand why we're all doing this: to protect ourselves and everyone around us.  Last updated: 22 October 2021 at 4:19 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Different Alert Levels mean different things for schools, universities and other training places. You may have to learn from home sometimes, but there are ways to cope that will make life easier. You might need to study at home depending on different Alert Levels. Being at home can make it hard to focus on school work, especially when everyone else is at home too. Studying can be stressful, but there are techniques you can use to cope. The Lowdown has advice. Study stress | The Lowdown (external link) You can get help and tips about preparing for NCEA Maths, Sciences and English exams at StudyIt. You can post an NCEA exam question on its discussion forum and a teacher/facilitator will respond. StudyIt | studyit.govt.nz (external link) Auckland University has tips for studying at home, including staying active, keeping in touch with friends, and making to-do lists. Tips for studying at home | Auckland University (external link) Last updated: 22 October 2021 at 4:11 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. It's OK to feel a bit worried or overwhelmed about COVID-19 and what it means for you. You can ask for help if you need it. Many of us are finding things tricky at the moment. It is OK to ask for help. There are many places you can get help. Here's some especially for rangatahi. Life can be pretty stressful sometimes and our thoughts can bring us down. Melon has techniques on how to accept yourself, build confidence and manage your emotions to help you get through. Melon | melonhealth.com (external link) Voices of Hope has lots of techniques to help with your mental health. Voices of Hope on Instagram (external link) Feeling stressed or anxious about COVID-19 is normal for a lot of us. The Lowdown has tips on how to handle stuff, like deep breathing, doing something active, and staying connected to your mates. The Lowdown | lowdown.co.nz (external link) Everyone has mental health. Learning how to look after your mental health creates ‘Mental Wealth’. Make yourself rich in mental wealth so you can spend it on taking care of yourself and others. MentalWealth | mentalwealth.nz (external link) Youthline provides a free Helpline service, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to young people, whatever is going on for you. Contact by text, phone, webchat and email. Youthline | youthline.co.nz (external link) We've got a bigger list on this website. Looking after your mental health (external link) Last updated: 1 October 2021 at 1:32 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Share and connect with others who are going through the same stuff as you. Last updated: 22 October 2021 at 4:09 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Your job might have changed because of COVID-19. Find out what support is available and what to do next. Last updated: 22 October 2021 at 4:08 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. This section contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. Getting a COVID-19 vaccine protects you, your whānau and your community. The vaccine teaches your body how to fight the virus. It will protect you from getting very sick if you do get COVID-19. It protects your whānau and friends because you are less likely to pass COVID-19 on to people around you. You can choose to get the vaccine. You can say yes or no or ask for help making your decision. Everyone should have the opportunity to take an active role in making decisions about their emotional wellbeing, their physical health and the things that are important to them. For disabled people or people with an impairment, this journey may look a little different. Deciding whether to be vaccinated, finding the most appropriate site and place to be vaccinated, and who to contact if you need transport, are significant parts of the journey that can affect disabled people’s experiences. We have created the Manaakitanga Journey online tool to help support disabled people to get vaccinated. If you are supporting someone with a disability to make a decision about getting the COVID-19 vaccine, you can use one of the supported decision making tools. Choose the guidance tool or combination of tools that best suits the person you are supporting. For disabled people and people with an impairment or long-term health condition, we want to make sure that getting your COVID-19 vaccination is easy and accessible. Some vaccination sites are specifically set up to support disabled people. These sites will have: If you have decided you want to get the vaccine, you can get your vaccination at an accessible site. Your family, whānau and support workers are also welcome to get their vaccinations with you. You can also choose to get vaccinated at any local vaccination centre, doctor or pharmacy near you. How to book your vaccination Here is a list of the most accessible vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand. You can book your vaccination online using Book My Vaccine. The website is accessible and can be used with a screen reader. When you make your appointment, you can ask for support, including: an NZSL interpreter support to make decisions assistance to move around a longer appointment time a quiet or low sensory environment more space to move around. Book My Vaccine (external link) You can also call the COVID Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and ‘push 2 ’ to speak to the disability team between 8am and 8pm Monday to Friday or email accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz You can ask the team to help you book an appointment at an accessible site, or any other vaccination site that will meet your needs. They can also help with transport or decide whether a home vaccination might be right for you. You can take a support person with you when you get your vaccination. This can be a carer, or someone else you trust. When you get to the vaccination site, you will need to sign in. If you need an NZSL interpreter or information in an accessible format, please ask. When it is your time to get vaccinated, the staff will ask you whether it is okay to give you the vaccine. If you say yes, this is called consent. If you cannot give consent, someone who is allowed to make decisions for you can give consent for you. The vaccinator may also ask you questions about how you are feeling, and what medication you take. It is normal to feel scared or worried. Ask the vaccinator if you have any questions. You will need to wait for 15 minutes after your vaccination. If this is hard for you, ask if you can wait somewhere else.      Even though face coverings are mandatory in many places, we know that some people who have a disability may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you are having trouble communicating with someone who is wearing a face covering, you can ask them to remove it during your conversation. You can request a card from the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz It is okay to be worried about COVID-19. If you feel like this, it is important to look after your mental health. There are websites you can visit and phone lines you can call if you need help. Check our the free services and resources available to you If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to get financial assistance. You can also get help to buy food and other essential items if you cannot go to the shops. Financial support for individuals and whānau How to get food and other important things you need It is important that you continue to access the disability services you need. Talk to your care provider to find out if there any changes to how you access any services because of Alert Level restrictions. Health and disability services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Health and disability services at Alert Level 3 (external link) Find information about COVID-19 in alternate formats: Last updated: 1 November 2021 at 2:00 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You might be interested in: If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Check our the free services and resources available to you (external link) These guidelines were developed to clarify public health measures and support marae to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their whānau, hapū, and iwi . We acknowledge that many iwi have already put together COVID-19 response plans for their hapū and marae. Marae should contact their tribal authority in the first instance if they have further questions. Guidance for marae Karawhiua is a campaign for whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Karawhiua is led by Te Puni Kōkiri, co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite against COVID-19 teams. Learn more about vaccines at the Karawhiua website (external link) Ruthie was 7 months hapū, with her baby Hope, when she contracted COVID-19 last year at a tangihanga. She shares her experience of being the first hapū māmā with COVID-19 in Aotearoa and her thoughts on the vaccine. Ruthie’s story is part of the Te Puni Kōkiri-led Karawhiua campaign which encourages whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities to make an informed choice about getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Watch Ruthie’s full story at Karawhiua (external link) It is OK to ask for help. Contact a helpline when you need support. Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot and report misinformation. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline about getting tested. Last updated: 24 September 2021 at 2:08 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call a doctor, iwi health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or to get tested for COVID-19. Keep communal areas and frequently touched surfaces clean, such as paepae, areas where kai is prepared and served, bathrooms, tables, chairs and door handles. Make sure handwashing facilities are available and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If people cannot maintain physical distance from those they do not know, we encourage wearing a face covering. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Marae should be prepared for changes in Alert Levels. We recommend having a plan in place for how the marae can operate and keep whānau safe during Alert Levels 2, 3 or 4. There are no restrictions on gatherings at marae at Alert Level 1. Hui, tangihanga, hura kōhatu, huringa tau and other gatherings can go ahead. It is important to stay vigilant, even at Alert Level 1. Kia mataara tātou. Continue to provide appropriate handwashing facilities and make sure attendees keep up good handwashing practices. Keep frequently touched surfaces and objects clean, and make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold or flu symptoms, contact a doctor, Māori health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 to get tested for COVID-19. The person organising a gathering at a marae must keep a record of the  attendees. Marae d o not need to keep contact tracing records if everyone at the gathering knows each other. But it is a good idea to keep a guest list to help with contact tracing if it is needed. The best way to keep contact tracing records is by asking attendees to scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae can open and hold gatherings at Alert Level 2, with up to 100 people in any indoor or outdoor defined space. Defined spaces (external link) The 100 person limit does not include workers providing services to a gathering. A marae can have multiple groups of people if they have more than one defined space, as long as there is no contact between them in or around the marae. This includes separate wharepaku and entrances for each group. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet Alert Level 2 restrictions. At all gatherings, keep each other safe by avoiding greetings that require close physical contact — for example, hongi, harirū, kissing or hugging with people you do not live with or who are outside your whānau. Guests can mix freely with people outside their whānau — you do not need to physically distance. You do not need to wear a face covering when visiting a marae, but we encourage you to wear one if possible. Before any gathering, clean all surfaces where kai will be prepared and served including benches, tables and chairs. Serve kai on plates in individual portions for each person. Try to avoid buffets or platters where people have to share utensils. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae will need to implement a Health and Safety plan and other measures. The Health and Safety plan must be displayed and communicated to all attendees. Contact your local hauora or Māori health provider for help with health and safety. Marae can take bookings for events such as conferences or business meetings at Alert Level 2. If a business or service hires a marae exclusively for an event, guests can mix freely, and they do not need to physically distance. People serving food and drinks must wear a face covering. Guests do not need to be seated at tables to be served. At Alert Level 3 up to 10 people are allowed at marae, but only for tangihanga or wedding and civil union services. The 10-people limit does not include kaikaranga, kaikōrero, as well as representatives of the hāhi who are attending. If you are attending a tangihanga or a wedding at a marae, we recommend you: You can serve food or drink but guests must be seated to be served. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. All marae are closed at Alert Level 4. We all need to stay home in our bubbles to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. Marae can assist whānau via email, text and phone contact to ensure they have access to cultural and technology support if needed. Last updated: 24 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information in Pacific languages: Check out the range of free services and resources available to you It's time to dial up the talanoa, helping our youth to navigate COVID-19 conversations with their parents, family and peers. Let's Talanoa with Dr Lesina Nakhid-Schuster and Rokalani Lavea. The Ministry for Pacific Peoples has created an educational video about the Pfizer vaccine that is also available in 9 Pacific languages. When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. The vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 12 and over. It will help to protect Aotearoa from COVID-19. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Book your COVID-19 vaccination Make sure you get the latest news and updates from reliable sources. Last updated: 5 November 2021 at 9:12 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. How to improve community resilience, connect communities, and how to prepare for an emergency as a community. Buying local is a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Help local tourism businesses by getting out and seeing New Zealand. Financial support is available for community groups and organisations. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) Last updated: 23 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Learn about all of the heroes supporting their communities to stay safe, healthy and informed about COVID-19. David Dewhurst is one of 80 volunteers who made up the QLDC COVID-19 Emergency Response Team from March to June 2020. With COVID-19 shutting our borders and businesses, thousands, mostly migrants, were out of work, unable to pay for groceries and rent, and ineligible for government support. Elderly and vulnerable community members were unable to shop safely to get essential groceries and medication. Anxiety rose, mental health and well-being suffered; the community responded. From March 24 to June 30, 23,342 requests for emergency support were submitted by 7,377 people living in the Queenstown Lakes area (population 39,153). Volunteers worked unpaid on a two-days on, two-days off roster to make hundreds of calls to people who had submitted requests for support. Through a rigorous needs assessment system, thousands of people were able to access the Civil Defence-funded supermarket voucher scheme to get food. Volunteers also responded to requests for accommodation, financial support, mental health assistance, assistance with pets, and language help. The QLDC Emergency Response Team was a semi-finalist in the Mitre 10 NZ Community of the Year 2021 awards (external link) . Watch David’s story (external link)  Manish Pandey is the vice president of Christchurch Multicultural Council. During the lockdown, Manish, in association with the Indian High Commission and community groups, assisted international students and new migrant families get access to food and other essentials. He also helped by translating official COVID-19 advice and news for the Indian community. Manish is a volunteer for the Office of Ethnic Communities as information facilitator on its Multilingual Information Network, working with OEC to help share important government information - ensuring New Zealand’s ethnic communities receive material in languages and ways that work for them.  Sikh temples around New Zealand responded to the national lockdown and the Alert Level 3 changes by distributing thousands of food parcels to hungry people. The Supreme Sikh Society observed that as the national lockdown continued last year, an increasing number of people were struggling to get access to food. During this time, the society estimated its temples distributed free meals and food parcels to 66,000 families from Auckland to Queenstown. For this work, the Society received the New Zealand Food Heroes People’s Choice Award in 2020. The award acknowledged: “The scale and compassion to vulnerable communities by the Supreme Sikh Society is impressive. Their timely and valuable response to the challenges of COVID show a dedication to the greater good.” In Auckland, Counties Manukau Police classified the Sikh temple in Takanini as an essential service provider where its Sikh volunteers even ensured a contactless system for collecting food where drivers were asked to drive in one gate, open their boot for a volunteer to load the parcel, before driving out through another gate. Sikh society wins prestigious award for service to community (external link)  Allen Lim is a horticulturalist at Jade Garden in the Selwyn District, near Christchurch. During lockdown last year when wholesale suppliers were shut, he donated vegetables to community food banks which were running out of food. He and his group of tramping friends had come up with the idea to supply food banks because they were aware of the food shortages. He says he could not have done without his tramping group who helped to get the produce out of the ground because although there was a surplus of produce, he was struggling to keep up with the demand from the supermarkets at the time.  Rozina Shaheen, known as Tooba Habib, originally from Pakistan, moved to Christchurch in 2007. She is a well-known community leader and volunteer among Canterbury’s ethnic communities and is the women’s coordinator of Muslim Association of Canterbury. Tooba spent last year helping some of the 15 March Christchurch terror attack victims but also provided support and coordination for international students and their families left isolated in New Zealand because of the COVID-19 pandemic. She helped these families get access to financial assistance as part of her ‘Support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ’ programme. Tooba is grateful for the kind hearts of New Zealanders who provided emotional and financial support to those in the community who are in need.  Eva Chen is an Auckland Council Ethnicity Peoples Advisory Panel member and a Strategies for Kids, Information for Parents (SKIP) Champion with Oranga Tamariki’s SKIP programme working with immigrant communities. Eva co-founded the Wellbeing Charitable Trust which has been working with Asian communities since 2014. She led a COVID-19 support programme to help ensure that New Zealand’s Chinese communities had access to official COVID-19 information. Just before lockdown, Eva set up the Mt Albert Chinese business support group to ensure people remained connected and supported. A key aim was to prevent family harm during a stressful time. She helped provide daily COVID-19 information updates in Chinese. Since July 2020, her group has focused on post-COVID-19 support for individuals and families, helping with the consequences of bullying and racism. Wellbeing Charitable Trust (external link)  Narinder Singh Warraich, originally from northern India, is the president of the Canterbury Punjabi Association. During the national lockdown, Narinder and his team assisted international students, stranded visitors and new migrant families by distributing food and face masks. He translated COVID-19 advice and news and used community radio and social media to keep the community informed. After the lockdown, Narinder took the initiative of organising workshops for people who had lost their jobs. One job fair attracted over 120 participants and connected unemployed people to Work and Income Work Brokers. Christchurch City MP Dr Duncan Webb acknowledged the work of the Association with a Members’ motion in Parliament on 26 May 2020, asking the House to “express its gratitude to the Canterbury Punjabi Association for the outstanding work it did over the period of the COVID-19 lockdown in supporting both its own community and the wider Canterbury community by the provision of free food parcels to anyone in need, in keeping with the best Punjabi tradition of daswandh and selfless service”.  Jane Potts is a St John Volunteer Ambulance Officer in Darfield. She attended ambulance callouts at any time of the day or night through all Alert Levels during the lockdown. This was unpaid. It required her to leave her safety bubble in order to save lives. Jane was awarded a Selwyn District Council COVID Heroes Award for her selfless dedication and professionalism to the community.  Jessica Phuang led her police team of 11 ethnic liaison officers to ensure that ethnic communities did not become victims of scams or racism. They gathered feedback on challenges faced in dealing with different government agencies, and to give advice and suggestions to those agencies on how to meet the needs of these communities. The team also linked ethnic communities to appropriate service providers and helped keep them updated with COVID-19 news. Through some ethnic social media channels, they were able to counteract misinformation and co-opt these channels to work with police. The team also contacted international students and tourists stranded in New Zealand without support to ensure that they were getting assistance.  Russ Carroll was a key person in the supply line of essential goods for delivery to workers and communities. During lockdown, he managed the delivery of thousands of online orders made by New Zealanders isolating in their homes. His motivated team worked long hours during a time of great uncertainty. Physical distancing rules had to be implemented together with a lane system to allow staff to get around the shop safely and efficiently. Workers would handpick products, pack stock and process orders, dealing with up to 2,500 packages a day. Russ is grateful for the support he received from the company, which in turn meant he could offer the best support for his team during an unprecedented time.  Vincents Art Workshop is a Wellington social service that welcomes people with disabilities, those moving into the community from institutions, the unemployed, people on low incomes and others. During lockdown and throughout 2020, its tutors provided connections and activities for its community of artists. The Vincents Artist Group on Facebook grew to 188 members. Staff published tutorials on its Facebook page, website, YouTube and on the Arts Access Aotearoa Facebook page to keep its artists busy. Tutors were careful to suggest using art materials that were commonly available at home or in people’s gardens. Regular communication with all its artists was vital to keep everyone connected and safe. Staff often held phone conversations with artists, their family members or support people when there were concerns about some artists’ anxiety levels. The Vincents team continues to work with a focus on contact tracing and hygiene to protect its community. Vincents Art Workshop (external link)  With the arrival of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Pakistan Association acted quickly to share awareness and safety information. It initiated regular Facebook Live and Zoom meetings to help its 10,000 community members. These initiatives were expanded to wider communities to work collaboratively in other areas like child and elder welfare. Association members, including doctors, clinical nurses, health workers, emergency specialist nurses, pharmacists and mental health support workers, were able to respond to COVID-19-related enquiries from its members. Volunteers also mobilised in South Auckland, distributing free food parcels and personal protective equipment (PPE) to people in need irrespective of religious affiliation or ethnicity. The Association also helped in situations requiring end-of-life care, funerals, burials and emergencies during lockdown. Pakistan Association of New Zealand (external link)  Gatluak, originally from South Sudan, is a community advocate at the Aotearoa Resettled Community Coalition (ARCC). He’s the voice of forced migrant background communities (communities that lived as refugees in other countries and resettled here). In 2020, Gatluak shared COVID-19 information from the Ministry of Health with Sudanese community leaders and families in the US, Norway, France, UK, Denmark, Finland, Canada, Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda, Sudan, South Sudan and Egypt. He translated and relayed information to combat misinformation in Sudanese communities where accurate information was hard to access. During lockdowns in the Auckland region, he distributed face masks and food parcels to many Auckland communities, and used ARCC video and radio to broadcast messages of health and wellbeing. Find out more about Gatluak’s story (external link) Aotearoa Resettled Community Coalition (external link)  Tam is the President of Lakes District Multicultural Council (LDMC) and founder of the charity Baskets of Blessing.  During the lockdown last year, she initiated a migrant needs assessment survey to find out how to best support migrants. The survey results were shared with other South Island community groups and used to identify needs and gaps in the community. LDMC also delivered grocery and pharmacy vouchers and arranged for medical appointments for those who could not afford them. This summer, Tam’s work is focused on the rollout of various initiatives to support vulnerable groups, including providing COVID-19 information, distributing personal protective equipment (PPE), delivering self-care and wellness kits to those who are isolated or lonely, organising opportunities for connection for migrants and working with other groups to build community resilience. Lakes District Multicultural Council Facebook page (external link) Baskets of Blessing (external link)  Hero is the co-ordinator of ‘Toranj’, a fortnightly Plains FM radio programme and podcast in the Farsi language of the Iranian community. During the nationwide lockdown last year, Hero and the Christchurch Iranian Society team translated information and gave daily COVID-19 updates. This was critical at a time when ‘infodemic’ (or ‘fake news’) had become a serious obstacle to getting government-sanctioned science-based pandemic information. The Christchurch Iranian Society set up online classes to provide opportunities for people with limited English to learn new skills and/or pick up a hobby while the country navigated through the different Alert Levels. The programmes included yoga classes, cooking and photography — each given by qualified members of the Iranian community in New Zealand. Plains FM (external link)  Alfie is a Plains FM broadcaster and producer of the Tagalog language programme Kabayan Radio for the Filipino community in Canterbury. His programme is also broadcast on Radio Southland in Invercargill. Over lockdown, Alfie broadcast important COVID-19 messages on Facebook Live from his garage and recorded and sent in another programme for Plains FM to broadcast weekly which included key messages from the Unite against COVID website. Alfie is continuing to broadcast his radio programme, giving advice and assistance to the Filipino community, including reminders on keeping safe from COVID-19. Plains FM (external link)  James Roque, an Auckland-based comedian and writer who describes himself as the Filipino stepson of New Zealand comedy, was the face of the Human Rights Commission and the Office of Ethnic Communities’ Racism Is No Joke campaign. James was featured in a series of short videos discussing racist jokes, and why they are not OK. The Racism Is No Joke campaign was launched in July 2020 as a specific response to racism towards Chinese and other Asian people in New Zealand because of COVID-19. Using humour and insights from his own experience as the second generation of a Filipino migrant family, James sought to influence New Zealanders and increase public awareness of racial discrimination and its negative impact on Asian communities living here. James Roque's website (external link)  Annemarie is a former ICU nurse who responded to the call by the Nursing Council of New Zealand for ex-nurses to help with the COVID-19 pandemic response. The Lakes district health board (DHB) nursing team were given 12 hours’ notice to set up the first of 2 managed isolation facilities in Rotorua. She says there is a lot of misunderstanding in the community about what they do. While she is on the frontline of a ‘Viral World War’, they have the right equipment and processes to protect the public. Her Rotorua team has been working hard to educate the community and demystify their work in Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ). Annemarie will be spending her summer working with her 450 Rotorua nursing, Defence Force and security colleagues to continue to keep the community safe. The Waikato district health board Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) Cultural Intervention Team welcomes and supports arrivals in MIQ in accordance with the manaakitanga (hospitality) of Waikato people. Their work supports every facet of Tikanga Māori, from welcoming returning guests, completing assessments, supporting those experiencing bereavement and trauma, and providing karakia and a safe space to korero. Activities offered include online Zumba fitness sessions, flax weaving, Mau Rakau (Māori martial arts) and te reo Māori classes. During the lockdown, the cultural team provided support to all ethnicities. Despite all the work they and the wider MIQ team does to protect New Zealand, its team leader, Ikimoke Tamaki-Takarei, says staff are often stigmatised in the community, despite the very strict health guidelines they work to. Maysa is the host of Bel A’arabee, a weekly Free FM radio show and podcast. She saw a much-needed opportunity to get relevant COVID-19 information delivered quickly, and she worked hard to translate the content for New Zealand’s Arabic-speaking communities. Maysa translated the Prime Minister’s COVID-19 media conferences, recording them in Arabic for broadcasting and podcasting on Free FM by 5pm each day. When Free FM went into lockdown, she continued to produce her programme from home. Her fellow broadcasters at Free FM are proud of her commitment and achievement in making each day’s information delivered quickly to the Arabic speaking communities. www.freefm.org.nz (external link) Sara is a Chinese language journalist and broadcaster. She worked at WTV, an Auckland-based Chinese language television station where she translated Unite against COVID-19 information for Chinese viewers. Sara’s broadcasts helped keep the mainly Mandarin-speaking communities in touch and up to date with Alert Level changes. Sara has a YouTube channel which she uses to entertain people and keep give them advice on all manner of subjects. She has even made one on the Make Summer Unstoppable theme. Sara's YouTube channel (external link)  The Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust is a Christchurch-based non-profit volunteering organisation that provides community services to the community. During lockdown, the Trust contacted vulnerable people with a special focus on elderly individuals who lived alone. Trust volunteers carried out food deliveries and provided financial assistance by assisting with Ministry of Social Development (MSD) grants. Volunteers also supported vulnerable people and families emotionally and socially to make them feel safe and stronger. The Trust opened an op-shop to help supply affordable winter and summer clothing to those affected by the closure of workplaces and the loss of work contracts and hours. Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust Facebook page (external link)  Lepou was a broadcaster with Plains FM on the weekly Samoan language programme Samoa Feso’ota’i. During the lockdown last year, she was active in her community, translating and broadcasting important COVID-19 messaging on the weekly radio show and podcast. She also delivered food parcels, food vouchers, hygiene packs and face coverings to over 200 families and 10 churches in the Christchurch area. Many of the struggling families and individuals had contacted her through her radio show. Sadly, Lepou recently passed away but her team is intent on carrying on the good works and service that she brought to her community. Listen to Samoa Feso’ota’i at Plains FM (external link)  The team of staff and volunteers at Asian Families Services (AFS) continues to provide counselling support and advice to diverse communities over the summer. During the lockdown, its services experienced a spike in demand on its Asian Helpline number, with many callers needing psychological, medical and informational support. Many clients are vulnerable, non-English speaking older people with long-term health conditions and/or mobility limitations who became completely isolated during the lockdown. AFS provides services in Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Japanese, Thai, Vietnamese and Hindi. During 2020, it worked with 2,834 clients, carried out 6,101 interventions and took 3,215 Helpline calls. Find out more about Asian Families Services (external link)  When Graham Bye arrived in New Zealand to join The Warehouse in January 2020, he never expected during his first few months that he would have to deal with the challenges of an unprecedented global pandemic. The Warehouse at Sylvia Park, which Graham manages, became a vital source of essential supplies requested by government agencies during the lockdown. Following the request from government, Graham and his team moved quickly to rearrange the shop, so it was fit for purpose to pack orders for requested products. Every day, they would receive an email with a list of required items which the team needed to locate within the store and package. Team members would grab shopping trolleys to collect the requested stock from the shelves and then box them up for delivery. Graham liaised with government agencies throughout Alert Levels 4 and 3 to maintain supply lines. He also ensured his team remained motivated, upbeat, connected and above all else, safe.  The CNSST Foundation (formerly known as the Chinese New Settlers Services Trust) provides services to Asian new settlers, including settlement orientation, educational and work programmes, and social housing. The Foundation’s Social Housing Team worked hard to protect a vulnerable group of people — elderly people, particularly the 51 residents who live in its social housing apartment. The team is continuing its work over the summer by providing information and services, including distributing personal protective equipment (PPE), to keep its elderly residents connected and safe. Find out more about The CNSST Foundation (external link)  Team TANI has been fully committed to responding to the increased community needs of Asian peoples in the Auckland region during the COVID-19 crisis. It did this by providing the most up-to-date information for accessing relevant public health, social support and mental well-being services. The team also initiated online wellbeing programs to support Asian communities during a challenging year and will continue that work in 2021. Find out more about The Asian Network Incorporated (external link)  Last updated: 25 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It is natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it is important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) When we get to know our neighbours we are more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) Last updated: 23 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Last updated: 15 October 2021 at 5:58 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You will be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) Last updated: 23 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa:   Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te tāpui i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapua he kōrero me aha koe ina haere atu ana i Aotearoa, hoki mai ana rānei Rapua he kōrero atu anō mō te KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero me pēhea te tiaki i a koutou ko tō hapori mai i te KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero mō te whakatewhatewha pānga me ngā wāhi whaipānga Rapua he kōrero me aha koe i ia Pae Mataara Ka whakakapi te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19 i te pūnaha Taumata Whakatūpato onāianei e whakamahia ana e te kāwanatanga hei urupare ki te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Rapua ngā rauemi mō te KOWHEORI-19 i Te Reo Māori Last updated: 10 November 2021 at 1:51 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Kimihia ngā mōhiohio mō te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki hei te wā o te urutā KOWHEORI-19. Kei te hiahia tātou katoa ki te kai me ngā mea waiwai pērā i te rongoā i ngā wā o te rāhuitanga KOWHEORI-19, nō reira kaua e whakatiki i a koe. Kei tēnei pārongo ngā mōhiohio mō ngā huarahi maha e whiwhi kai ai, e whiwhi mea waiwai ai koe. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. Last updated: 1 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Rapua he kōrero mō te whakatewhatewha pānga me ngā wāhi whaipānga He iti iho te mōrea o Ngā Tāngata Noa i Pātata tēnā i Ngā Tāngata i Tātata. He iti iho te mōrea o Ngā Tāngata i Pātata tēnā i Ngā Tāngata Noa i Pātata me Ngā Tāngata i Tātata. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a koe me waea atu ki Healthline, me haere kia aromatawaihia koe ka noho ki te kāinga tae noa: Kāo, engari anō mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate. Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 pea ko tētahi maremare hou, kino kē atu rānei, te kirikā, hēmanawa, mamae korokoro, heke te hūpē, kua kore rānei e rongo ā-ihu/ā-tāwara mō tētahi wā. Ka pā mai anō pea ki ētahi tāngata te mate tikotiko, ānini māhunga, mamae uaua, whakapairuaki, pōkaikaha, te kārangi rānei. Mēnā kei te uaua te hēhē, waea atu mō te waka tūroro: Waea ki 111 . Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a koe. Mēnā ka pā mai he tohumate ki a koe, me waea atu ki Healthline, me aromatawaihia ka noho ki te kāinga. Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mēnā ka kitea i te aromatawai kei te mate koe ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Ehara i te mea me aromatawai ētahi atu tāngata o tō whare, me noho ki te kāinga rānei, engari ia mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a rātau. Me waea atu te hunga ka pāngia e ngā tohumate ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki te tangata me waea atu ki Healthline, me haere kia aromatawaihia koe ka noho ki te kāinga tae noa: Mēnā i te wāhi pūtake koe i te wā i whakahuatia, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga. Ka taea anake e koe te wehe i te kāinga mēnā kei te haere koe kia aromatawaitia mō te KOWHEORI-19, mēnā rānei ka pā mai he ohotata, ā, kei te noho mōrearea koe. Me haere koe kia aromatawaitia: I te wā kei te kāinga koe me noho wehe mai i ētahi atu tāngata i tō whare mēnā ka taea. Ka taea e koe te korikori tinana i waho, engari i tōu whare mēnā ka taea haumarutia wehe mai i ētahi atu. Arā, ko ngā mahi pea pērā i te hikihiki maitai i tō iari, te whakamahi taura pekepeke i tō ara kuhunga rānei. Kāore e uru mai ki tēnei ko ngā mahi i waho atu o tō kāinga, iari rānei pērā i te heri i te kurī ki te hīkoi i te takiwā noho. Mēnā he kaimahi waiwai koe, tē taea e koe te wehe i tō whare ki te haere ki te mahi. Mēnā i te wāhi pūtake koe, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga mō te 5 rā i te iti rawa mai i tō pānga whakamutunga tae noa ki te whakaatu a tō aromatawai rā 5 kāore koe i te mate. Me tirotiro e koe ngā tohumate mō te 14 rā. Me waea atu te hunga ka pāngia e ngā tohumate ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Mēnā kāore koe i te āhei atu ki tētahi waka tūmataiti mā te whānau, ngā tautoko hapori rānei, me whakapā atu ki tō tari hauora tūmatanui. Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mēnā ka kitea i te aromatawai kei te mate koe ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Me noho wehe koe mai i ētahi atu o te whare ina taea. Kaua rawa e tuari rīhi, kapu, taputapu kai, pera, taora rānei me ētahi atu i tō whare. Me horoi i ō mea ki rō wai hopihopi wera. Ka āhei ngā tāngata katoa o tō whare (hāunga te tangata i tae atu ki te wāhi pūtake) ki te puta atu ki waho engari kaua mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a rātau. Ki te pā mai he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ki tētahi atu, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki Healthline kia aromatawaitia. Me noho ki te kāinga tae noa: Ehara i te mea me aromatawai ētahi atu tāngata o te whare, engari ia mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a rātau. Me waea atu te hunga ka pāngia e ngā tohumate ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mēnā ka kitea i te aromatawai kei te mate koe ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 pea ko tētahi maremare hou, kino kē atu rānei, te kirikā, hēmanawa, mamae korokoro, heke te hūpē, kua kore rānei e rongo ā-ihu/ā-tāwara mō tētahi wā. Ka pā mai anō pea ki ētahi tāngata te mate tikotiko, ānini māhunga, mamae uaua, whakapairuaki, pōkaikaha, te kārangi rānei. Ki te pā mai ngā tohumate ki te tangata — ahakoa kua kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate — me wawe te haere kia aromatawaitia, me noho ki te kāinga, ā, me noho wehe i ētahi atu i tō kāinga mēnā ka taea. Me pēnei haere tonu tae noa ki te 24 haora i muri mai i te mutunga o ō tohumate, ā, kia whakaatu rā anō tō aromatawai kāore koe i te mate. Mēnā kei te uaua te hēhē, waea atu mō te waka tūroro: Waea ki 111 . Me mātua noho te tangata i tae atu ki te wāhi pūtake ki te kāinga. Engari anō ki te pā mai he tohumate, ka āhei ētahi atu i tō whare ki te haere ki te hoko kai. Mēnā ka mate koe ki te haere, ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi hoa, he kiritata, he whanaunga rānei kia heria mai ō kai me ō rongoā ki tō kūaha. Engari, kāore koe e āhei ki te kōrero ki a ia, tētahi atu tangata i pā rānei ki a ia i a ia i reira. Ka taea e koe te tono tuihono ngā kai mā ngā toa hokomaha paetata me tā rātau Ratonga Āwhina Whakaarotau. Ka taea te whakarato ngā tōtō kai ki tō kēti, tō kūaha rānei – haere ki familyservices.govt.nz (external link) ki te kimi i tētahi pātaka kai, waea atu rānei ki 0800 890 110 ki te ota i tētahi Kete Tautoko a Whānau Ora. He mea nui tonu mō te hunga he tohumate ō rātau, i tae atu ki tētahi wāhi pūtake, he tangata i tātata, i aromatawaitia rānei mō te KOWHEORI-19 kia kaua rawa e haere ki tētahi kano ārai mate. Waea atu ki 0800 28 29 26 , haere rānei ki bookmyvaccine.nz (external link) ki te whakarite anō i tō wāhui. Rongoā: Mēnā he ohotata, waea atu ki 111 . Mēnā ehara i te ohotata, me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ngā tautoko hauora hinengaro me te oranga: He uaua pea te noho taratahi. E wātea ana he āwhina. Mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko koe, ka taea e koe te kōrero ki tētahi tumu kōrero – me waea atu, me patowaea rānei ki 1737 hei whakamahi i te ratonga ‘Need to Talk?’. He koreutu, ā, e wātea ana i te 24 haora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Me kī he tino tuku tautoko i roto i te reo Ingarihi engari tērā ētahi wā ka taea te tūhono i a koe ki tētahi kaikōrero i tua atu i te reo Ingarihi. Taha pūtea: E wātea ana he tautoko pūtea mā te hunga me noho ki te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19 i Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora i te 7 rā i te wiki, 8am ki te 5pm i 0800 559 009 me Whānau Ora i 0800 875 663 . Mēnā kei a koe tonu tō tamaiti, kua uru tonu ia ki roto i te noho rāhui a tō whare, ā, me mātua whai i aua ture anō o tō whare. Mēnā kāore tō tamaiti i tō taha, ā, ko tō rāhui he hono atu ki tētahi atu, he whānui ake rānei, ka āhei ia ki te noho ki tō taha engari me whai ngā tāngata katoa o tō rāhui i ngā ture o tō whare. Ka āhei tonu koe ki tētahi kaitiaki kia haere ake ki tō kāinga mēnā ko koe anake te tangata e tiakina ana, ā, me mau PPE ia. Kāore ia i te āhei ki te tiaki i ētahi atu tāngata nō whare kē. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Mēnā kei te hiahia kai koe, ota rongoā, ngā mea waiwai rānei me tono ki tētahi hoa, he kiritata rānei kia waiho ki waho o tō kūaha. Mēnā i tae koe te wāhi pūtake i te wā kua whakatauhia, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga. Ka taea anake e koe te wehe i te kāinga mēnā kei te haere koe kia aromatawaitia mō te KOWHEORI-19, mēnā rānei ka pā mai he ohotata, kei te noho mōrearea hoki koe. Me haere koe kia aromatawaitia: I te wā kei te kāinga me noho wehe mai i ētahi atu tāngata i tō whare mēnā ka taea. Ka taea e koe te korikori tinana i waho, engari i tōu whare mēnā ka taea haumarutia wehe mai i ētahi atu. Tērā pea ko ngā mahi pērā i te hikihiki maitai i tō iari, te whakamahi taura pekepeke i tō ara kuhunga rānei. Kāore e uru mai ki tēnei ko ngā mahi i waho atu o tō kāinga, iari rānei pērā i te heri i te kurī ki te hīkoi i te takiwā noho. Mēnā he kaimahi waiwai koe, tē taea e koe te wehe i tō whare ki te haere ki te mahi. Mēnā i te wāhi pūtake koe, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga mō te 14 rā i te iti rawa mai i tō pānga whakamutunga, ahakoa ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate. Me noho taratahi koe tae noa ki te waeatanga a Healthline ki a koe ki te whakaū i tō tukutanga mai i te noho taratahi i te rā 14. Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Mēnā kāore ō waka me waea atu ki tō rata, ā, tērā pea ka mahi tahi tō rata me ngā ratonga hapori ki te whakarite i tētahi aromatawai, ngā whakahaere aromatawai nekeneke rānei i ngā wāhi he nui te hiahia. Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mō ngā aromatawai e whakaatu ana kei te mate ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Me noho ngā tāngata katoa o te whare ki te kāinga kia tohu rā anō te aromatawai rā 5 o te tangata i haere ki te wāhi pūtake kāore ia i te mate. Nō reira kāore koe i te āhei ki te puta ki te: Engari ka āhei koe ki te haere ki waho ki te: Tē taea e koe te wehe i tō whare ki te haere ki te mahi engari ia mēnā he kaimahi waiwai koe, ā, kei te ū koe ki ētahi āhuatanga ake. Me noho ngā tāngata katoa o te whare ki te kāinga mō te 5 rā i te iti rawa – kia whakaatu rā anō te aromatawai rā 5 o te tangata i haere ki te wāhi pūtake kāore ia i te mate. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ki ētahi atu me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , ka roa ake pea tō wā noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me aromatawai ētahi atu tāngata o te whare, engari ia mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a rātau, ka tonoa rānei rātau e ngā āpiha hauora. Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Mēnā kāore ō waka me waea atu ki tō rata, ā, tērā pea ka mahi tahi tō rata me ngā ratonga hapori ki te whakarite i tētahi aromatawai, ngā whakahaere aromatawai nekeneke rānei i ngā wāhi he nui te hiahia. Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mō ngā aromatawai e whakaatu ana kei te mate ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 pea ko tētahi maremare hou, kino kē atu rānei, te kirikā, hēmanawa, mamae korokoro, heke te hūpē, kua kore rānei e rongo ā-ihu/ā-tāwara mō tētahi wā. Ka pā mai anō pea ki ētahi tāngata te mate tikotiko, ānini māhunga, mamae uaua, whakapairuaki, pōkaikaha, te kārangi rānei. Ki te pā mai ngā tohumate ki te tangata — ahakoa kua kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate — me wawe te waea atu ki Healthline kia aromatawaitia, me noho ki te kāinga, ā, me noho wehe i ētahi atu i tō kāinga mēnā ka taea. Me pēnei haere tonu tae noa ki te 24 haora i muri mai i te mutunga o ō tohumate, ā, kia whakaatu rā anō tō aromatawai kāore koe i te mate. Mēnā kei te uaua te hēhē, waea atu mō te waka tūroro: Waea ki 111 . Kia whakaatu rā anō te aromatawai rā 5 kāore te tangata i tae ki te wāhi pūtake i te mate, kaua rawa he tangata e wehe i tō whare ki te tiki kai, ētahi atu ō rānei. Ka taea e koe te tono tētahi hoa, he kiritata, he whanaunga rānei kia heria mai ō kai me ō rongoā ki tō kūaha. Engari, kāore koe e āhei ki te kōrero ki a ia, tētahi atu pānga rānei ki a ia i a ia i reira. Mēnā kāore he tohumate o ētahi atu i tō whare, ka āhei rātau ki te haere ki te hoko kai i muri i te whakaatu a te aromatawai rā 5 o te tangata i haere ki te wāhi pūtake kāore ia i te mate. Mēnā ko koe te tangata i haere ki tētahi wāhi pūtake, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga kia whakaaetia rā anō koe e te Hauora Tūmatanui kei te āhei koe ki te wehe. Ka taea e koe te tono tuihono ngā kai mā ngā toa hokomaha paetata me tā rātau Ratonga Āwhina Whakaarotau. Ka taea te whakarato ngā tōtō kai ki tō kēti, tō kūaha rānei – haere ki familyservices.govt.nz (external link) ki te kimi i tētahi pātaka kai, waea atu rānei ki 0800 890 110 ki te ota i tētahi Kete Tautoko a Whānau Ora. Me noho wehe koe mai i ētahi atu o te whare ina taea. Kaua rawa e tuari rīhi, kapu, taputapu kai, pera, taora rānei me ētahi atu i tō whare. Me horoi i ō mea ki rō wai hopihopi wera. He mea nui tonu mō te hunga he tohumate ō rātau, i tae atu ki tētahi wāhi pūtake, he tangata i tātata, i aromatawaitia rānei mō te KOWHEORI-19 kia kaua rawa e haere ki tētahi pokapū kano ārai mate, kei roto i tēnei ko ngā tāngata o tō whare kei te noho i tō kāinga. Waea atu ki 0800 28 29 26 , haere rānei ki bookmyvaccine.nz ki te whakarite anō i tō wāhui. Mēnā he kaimahi hauora waiwai koe, he kaimahi paewhenua rānei, ā, e ū ana koe ki ētahi āhuatanga ake, ka āhei pea koe ki te mahi haere tonu. Torotoro ki a Healthline ki te tirotiro. Rongoā: Mēnā he ohotata, waea atu ki 111 . Mēnā ehara i te ohotata, me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ngā tautoko hauora hinengaro me te oranga: He uaua pea te noho taratahi. E wātea ana he āwhina. Mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko koe, ka taea e koe te kōrero ki tētahi tumu kōrero – me waea atu, me patowaea rānei ki 1737 hei whakamahi i te ratonga ‘Need to Talk?’. He koreutu, ā, e wātea ana i te 24 haora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Me kī he tino tuku tautoko i roto i te reo Ingarihi engari tērā ētahi wā ka taea e te tūhono i a koe ki tētahi kaikōrero i tua atu i te reo Ingarihi. Taha pūtea: Mēnā ko te tikanga o te noho taratahi kua kore e taea e koe te mahi, e wātea ana he tautoko mā Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora i te 7 rā i te wiki, 8am ki te 5pm i 0800 559 009 me Whānau Ora i 0800 875 663 . Mēnā kei a koe tō tamaiti i tēnei wā, kua uru tonu ia ki roto i te noho rāhui a tō whare, ā, me mātua whai i aua ture 'noho ki te kāinga' anō. Mēnā e manaakitia e koe ō tamariki mō tētahi wā, ā, kua honoa, kua whānui ake rānei tō rāhui, me whai ngā tāngata katoa o tō rāhui kua whakakotahitia i aua ture anō o tōu whare – arā, ko te tikanga o tērā ka noho ngā tāngata katoa i roto i ngā whare e rua. Ka āhei tonu koe ki tētahi kaitiaki kia haere ake ki tō kāinga mēnā ko koe anake te tangata e tiakina ana, ā, me mau PPE ia. Kāore ia i te āhei ki te tiaki i ētahi atu tāngata nō whare kē. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) Last updated: 28 October 2021 at 4:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ina puta he take hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, ka whakahoutia e Te Manatū Hauora tana pae tukutuku ki ngā wāhi i kitea ētahi kēhi tūturu o te KOWHEORI-19, ā ka kīia ēnei he ʻWāhi Whaipānga’. He mea nui tonu kia hihiratia mēnā i tae koe ki tētahi wāhi whaipānga i te wā i whakatauhia. Mēnā i tae koe, ka tuhia ngā mōhiohio i te taha o ia wāhi whaipānga o ngā mahi hei whai māhau. Ko ngā mahi me mahi koe kei te āhua o te mōrearea whakaraerae i ia wāhi. Mēnā kāore koe i tae ki tētahi o aua wāhi, ka tae kē atu ki tētahi o aua wāhi engari kīhai i reira i te wā i whakatauhia, me aroturuki koe i tō hauora, ā, me haere kia whakamātauria anake mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ētahi tohumate.  Ngā wāhi whaipānga (external link) Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. Last updated: 28 October 2021 at 3:46 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Rapua he kōrero atu anō mō te KOWHEORI-19 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Last updated: 10 November 2021 at 3:42 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: I tētahi wā pēnei: Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) Last updated: 14 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. Kua tere te hora puta noa i te ao o te momo Delta, ā, koinei tonu te momo matua i ngā whenua maha. Koinei te taurangi mama rawa ki te whakawhiti, otirā he māmā ake tana horanga ki tērā o te momo tuatahi o te wheori KOWHEORI-19, me ētahi atu momo taurangi. He rerekē te Delta i te mea mō ngā tāngata e pāngia ana: Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. I tēnei wā e whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga, he 88% te whaihuatanga o ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te mate i te pokenga Delta. Ko te āraitanga i te urunga ki te hōhipera nā te pokenga Delta, he āhua 96%. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Last updated: 28 October 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Whāia ōu tapuwae [PDF, 125 KB] Track your journey Kia haumaru te haere [PDF, 120 KB] Travel safely Ngā ratonga me ngā tautoko [PDF, 151 KB] Services and support Te toro atu ki ngā kai, ki ngā mea waiwai rānei [PDF, 75 KB] Access to food or essential items Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: Rapua ngā meka [PDF, 270 KB] COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Rapua he kōrero me pēhea te tiaki i a koutou ko tō hapori mai i te KOWHEORI-19 Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o ngā pata i te wā e kōrero ana, e kata ana, e maremare ana, e matihe ana hoki te tangata. Ka hāngai hoki ki tēnei ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 engari e ora ana te āhua, otirā kāore he tohumate mārama. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. E akiaki ana mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā kāore e taea te tū tawhiti atu i tētahi atu, hei tauira, i ngā wāhi kōpā i rō whare. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā ko koe te kaihautū o tētahi: Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā: E akiaki ana mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: Me mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā he kaimahi koe e whai pānga ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei e mahi ana i te Pae Mataara 3. Me mau ārai kanohi koe mēnā e mahi ana koe i: E akiaki ana mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: Me mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā he kaimahi koe e whai pānga ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei e mahi ana i te Pae Mataara 4. Me mau ārai kanohi koe mēnā e mahi ana koe i: E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Kia mahara koe ki tēnei āhuatanga. E whai āheinga tonu ana rātou ki ngā ratonga kai, kēmehi me ētahi atu ratonga. Mēnā e taea ana, ka akiakitia koe ki te mau i tētahi ārai kanohi. Ko te mau ārai kanohi kāore e hiahiatia: Kāore hoki koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā: E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mau i tētahi, ka taea e koe te tiki kāri awere. Ka taea e koe te whakaatu i tō kāri awere i ngā wā e hiahia ana. Ka taea e koe te tono kāri i te Disabled Persons Assembly NZ mā te whakapā atu ki a rātou i 04 801 9100 i info@dpa.org.nz rānei. Last updated: 31 March 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. Last updated: 14 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. Last updated: 14 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Rapua he kōrero me aha koe i ia Pae Mataara Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate I runga ki nga waka tūmatanui, ai ka ū nga arai mata Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. Last updated: 21 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake,kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . I te Pae Mataara 2 me: Rapu kōrero atu anō mō: I ngā huihuinga, taiopenga me ngā whare taiopenga, ka taea te mōrahi o te: Ka pā ēnei herenga ki ngā taiopenga katoa pēnei i te mārena, tangihanga, ngā whakarite, hākinakina hapori me ngā mahi kori, hui ā-whānau me ngā hui tūmataiti. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi. Mēnā neke atu i te kotahi wāhi tautohu, kua kore e taea e te tangata te whakawhitiwhiti wāhi. Ka uru ki tēnei te tomo, te wehe, te haere rānei ki te wharepaku. Kāore ngā kaimahi e whakarato ratonga ana i te taiopenga e uru ki ngā tepenga huihuinga rō whare, i waho rānei. Mēnā he tāngata ōu kei ngā wāhi rō whare, waho hoki, me mātua whakarite kia kaua ngā rōpū e rua e pāhekoheko. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, me noho wehe ngā tomokanga ki ngā wāhi tiri - hei tauira, ngā wharepkau, ngā taupaepae rānei e haere atu ai te tangata ki te tono, te utu rānei. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā huihuinga i te Pae Mataara 2 Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, me noho i te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana, ka taea e koe te hāereere i te Pae Mataara 2, tae atu ki ētahi atu rohe kei te Pae Mataara 2. Me whakarite koe kia haumaru tō mahi i taua mahi. Kāore rawa e whakaaetia ana te whakawhiti i te paewhenua Pae Mataara mō ngā haerenga whaiaro. Hei āwhina tēnei ki te aukati i te horahanga o te huaketo. Ka taea anake te whakawhiti i te paewhenua Pae Mataara mēnā e whakaaetia ana tērā haerenga. E whakaaetia ana ētahi haere pakihi. E whakaaetia ana ētahi haerenga whaiaro, hei tauira, mō ngā take hauora, ngā ohotata, te tuku manaaki, tautoko rānei ki tētahi atu e noho whāomoomo ana e whai mate tuamatanga ana rānei, e tiri ana i te tiakanga tamariki rānei. Mēnā e whakawhiti ana i te ripa mō ngā take kua whakaaetia, me kawe koe i te taunakitanga tika. Mēnā kāore e whakaaetia ana tō take whakawhiti ripa, ka taea e koe te tono whakawāteatanga. Me tutuki i tō tono ētahi paearu e hāngai ana. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te hāereere, te nekehanga me ngā whakawāteatanga I te Pae Mataara 2, ka taea ō hākinakina, mahi kori auau hoki, mēnā he haumaru te mahi. Engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, me noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe ngā mahi pēnei i te: Me tutuki hoki i te hākinakina me ngā mahi rēhia ngā aratohu mō ngā huihuinga me te pupuri rekoata. He uaua te mahi kori me ngā hākinakina i te wā e mau ārai kanohi ana, nō reira kāore te ture ārai kanohi e whai pānga ki ngā mahi kori. I ngā taiao whare kori, me 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu, ko te tikanga o tērā ka iti noa iho pea te hunga e āhei ana ki ngā wāhi kori kei rō whare. I te wā e kori tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, kia 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu tāngata kāore koe i te mōhio i ngā wā e taea ana. Me mau ārai kanohi i ētahi tū wāhi, tae atu ki ngā waka tūmatanui, te toro i ngā whare hauora, i ngā hokomaha me ētahi atu wāhi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Rapua ngā wā me mau ārai waha koe Mēnā raru ana koe ki te taha pūtea, kai, tō oranga hinengaro, tinana rānei, tērā pea he tautoko e wātea ana. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ētahi mōhiohio mō ngā tautoko mā te tangata kotahi Pāwhiri ki konei mō ētahi mōhiohio mō ngā tautoko mā ngā pakihi E tūwhera ana ngā whare ako kōhungahunga katoa, me ngā kura ki ngā reanga katoa. He haumaru tonu te haere a ngā tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi te hunga pakeke ake i te 12 tau i te kura. Ka taea e ngā wāhi pakihi te noho tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki mēnā e tutuki ana ngā here hauora tūmatanui katoa. Ko ngā here hauora tūmatanui ko te: Ka taea tonu e ngā ratonga ka whakaratoa i ngā wāhi kiritaki (pēnei i ō rātou kāinga ake), me ngā ratonga pānga tata (hei tauira, ngā kaihaumanu rerehua me ngā kaikuti makawe) te whakahaere mēnā ka tutuki i a rātou ngā tikanga hauora tūmatanui. Me mau ārai kanohi katoa te hunga e mahi ana i tētahi ratonga pānga tata. Ki te kore e taea e te wāhi mahi te whakatutuki i ēnei tikanga, e kore e taea e ia te whakahaere. E whakahaua ana ngā pakihi katoa ki te whakamahi i ētahi atu huarahi mahi mēnā ka taea, ā, me kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā mōrearea, ā, me pēhea te whakahaere. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi te katoa o ngā here hauora me te haumaru, te tiaki i ngā kaimahi, ā, me te whakatutuki i ngā paerewa tuku mahi mōkito rawa. E ai ki te ture, me whai tukanga ngā pakihi me ngā kaiwhakarite taiopenga e taea ai te rekoata i tō toronga. Me whai huarahi nui atu i te kotahi mō te pūrongo i te toronga o te tangata, inarā mō te hunga kāore e taea e rātou te matawai i ngā waehere QR. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā whare kawhe, ngā whare kai, ngā wāhi inu waipiro, ngā whare petipeti, ngā kōnehete, ngā whare kaumātua, ngā whare hauora (hāunga ngā tūroro), ngā kaikuti makawe, ngā whare kori, whare kanikani, whare pukapuka, kōti, tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, me ngā kaituku ratonga pāpori e whai wāhi taupaepae ana. Koinei ētahi momo rekoata i tō toronga: Me haere tonu te mahi a ngā pakihi ki te whakaatu i te tohu waehere QR, ahakoa kāore e hiahiatia ana ki te kohi i ngā rekoata kiritaki. He mōhiohio whaiaro ngā rekaota whakapā. Me haumaru te kohi, te whakamahi, te puri, te whāki, ā, me te porowhiu i runga anō i ngā tikanga o te Privacy Act 2020. He nui ake pea ngā hiahia haumaru o ngā pūnaha rekoata rerekē. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā mōhiohio e pā ana ki te puri rekoata me te whaiwhai i te pātanga mā ngā pakihi Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā Pae Mataara katoa Ina pā he ohotata, whāia ngā aratohu ohotata whānui, tohutohu rānei mai i ngā mana ohotata. Ko tō haumarutanga te mea nui. Kia haumaru koe, whāia ngā whakatūpato ki te ārai i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i te tū tīrara, te mau ārai kanohi rānei. Mēnā he mōreareatanga ki tō oranga, kāinga rānei, me waea ki 111 ka tono i te Pirihimana, Whakaratonga Iwi, Waka Tūroro rānei. Rapu me aha koe i te wā o te ohotata Last updated: 19 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. 12 o Whiringa-ā-nuku 2021 Kei te Pae Mataara 3 tonu a Tāmaki Makaurau, ahakoa kua whakamāmātia ētahi o ngā here. Ināianei ka taea e koe: Ka taea e ngā tamariki te hoki ki ngā whare ako kōhungahunga, me te mōrahi o te 10 tamariki i ia kāhui rāhui. Me mau ārai kanohi ngā mātua me ngā kaitiaki i te wāhi kohi, whakataka hoki. Ka rerekē pea ēnei here i runga anō i te āhua o ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Rapua ngā mōhiohio hou rawa mō ngā tautuhinga Pae Mataara 3 o Tāmaki Makaurau Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake,kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . I te Pae Mataara 3 me: Rapu kōrero atu anō mō: I te Pae Mataara 3, e herea ana koe e te ture ki te noho i tō kāhui rāhui kāinga mēnā kāore koe i te mahi, te kura rānei. Ko tō kāhui rāhui kāinga te rōpū tāngata he whakapānga ā-tinana tāu ki a rātou i ia rā. I te Pae Mataara 3, ka uru hoki te hunga e noho tahi ana i tō kāinga, ā, mēnā e tika ana, ngā whānau tata, te hunga mohoao, kaitiaki rānei. Me noho whāiti tonu tō kāhui rāhui. E kore e taea te pōhiri hoa, whānau rānei kāore i roto i tō kāhui rāhui, kia haere ki tō kāinga. Te tūtaki ki ō hoa me te whānau i te Pae Mataara 3 E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā huihuinga i te Pae Mataara 3 He tepenga tō ngā nekehanga whaiaro, pakihi hoki i te Pae Mataara 3, i waenga hoki i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3 me ētahi atu rohe Pae Mataara. Hei āwhina tēnei ki te aukati i te horahanga o te huaketo. Kua whakaaetia ētahi haerenga pakihi, hei tauira e mahi ana koe mō tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei kei te Pae Mataara 4. E whakaaetia ana ētahi haerenga whaiaro, hei tauira, mō ngā take hauora, ngā ohotata, te tuku manaaki, tautoko rānei ki tētahi atu e noho whāomoomo ana e whai mate tuamatanga ana rānei, e tiri ana i te tiakanga tamariki rānei. Mēnā e haere ana mō ngā take kua whakaaetia, me kawe koe i te taunakitanga tika. Mēnā kāore e whakaaetia ana tō take haere, ka taea e koe te tono whakawāteatanga. Me tutuki i tō tono ētahi paearu e hāngai ana. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te hāereere, te nekehanga me ngā whakawāteatanga I te Pae Mataara 3, ka taea e koe te kori takitahi i tō rohe tata, i te taha o ētahi atu hunga rānei o tō kāhui rāhui kāinga. Ko te mea nui katoa kia noho haumaru, kia noho tata ki tō kāinga. Haere ki tō paparēhia, ākau tata rānei, kaua ki tō mea kaingākau. Me kuhu ki ngā mahi mōrearea iti, kāore nei e hiahiatia ana ngā ratonga whakaora, hauora rānei. Ngā hākinakina me ngā mahi a rēhia i te Pae Mataara 3 Me mau ārai kanohi i ētahi tū wāhi, tae atu ki ngā waka tūmatanui, te toro i ngā whare hauora, i ngā hokomaha me ētahi atu wāhi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Rapua ngā wā me mau ārai waha koe Mēnā raru ana koe ki te taha pūtea, kai, tō oranga hinengaro, tinana rānei, tērā pea he tautoko e wātea ana. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ētahi mōhiohio mō ngā tautoko mā te tangata kotahi Pāwhiri ki konei mō ētahi mōhiohio mō ngā tautoko mā ngā pakihi E tuwhera ana ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā pūtahitanga mātauranga matua mā ngā tamariki i raro i te 14 tau te pakeke, a ngā mātua me ngā kaitiaki ka mate ki te hoki ā-kanohi ki te mahi anake. E pai ana kia hoki ēnei tamariki ki te kura, ā, ka whakaritea ngā kāhui rāhui iti o ngā ākonga me ngā kaiako. Kua katia nga wāhi tūmatanui. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā wāhi kai, ngā whare kori tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā paparēhia me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā hou ki te kuhu ki ētahi mahi hou, te whakaraerae rānei i a koe, tō kāhui rāhui rānei ki te mōrearea. Ka taea ngā mahi rēhia mōrearea iti i tō rohe paetata. I te Pae Mataara 3, me mahi te katoa mai i te kāinga mēnā ka taea. Mēnā he pānga tata ā-tinana kei roto i ngā mahi a tō pakihi, e kore e whakaaehia kia tuwhera.Ka taea e ērā atu pakihi te mahi, engari tērā ngā here. Arā: He iti noa ngā pakihi e āhei atu ai ngā kiritaki te toro atu ki ō rātou wāhi mahi, rapua ko ēhea aua pakihi . Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi te katoa o ngā here hauora me te haumaru, te tiaki i ngā kaimahi, ā, me te whakatutuki i ngā paerewa tuku mahi mōkito rawa. E ākina ana ngā pakihi ki te kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā mōreareatanga me ngā huarahi whakahaere i aua mōreareatanga E ai ki te ture, me whai tukanga ngā pakihi me ngā kaiwhakarite taiopenga e taea ai te rekoata i tō toronga. Me whai huarahi nui atu i te kotahi mō te pūrongo i te toronga o te tangata, inarā mō te hunga kāore e taea e rātou te matawai i ngā waehere QR. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā whare kawhe, ngā whare kai, ngā wāhi inu waipiro, ngā whare petipeti, ngā kōnehete, ngā whare kaumātua, ngā whare hauora (hāunga ngā tūroro), ngā kaikuti makawe, ngā whare kori, whare kanikani, whare pukapuka, kōti, tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, me ngā kaituku ratonga pāpori e whai wāhi taupaepae ana. Koinei ētahi momo rekoata i tō toronga: Me haere tonu te mahi a ngā pakihi ki te whakaatu i te tohu waehere QR, ahakoa kāore e hiahiatia ana ki te kohi i ngā rekoata kiritaki. He mōhiohio whaiaro ngā rekaota whakapā. Me haumaru te kohi, te whakamahi, te puri, te whāki, ā, me te porowhiu i runga anō i ngā tikanga o te Privacy Act 2020. He nui ake pea ngā hiahia haumaru o ngā pūnaha rekoata rerekē. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā mōhiohio e pā ana ki te puri rekoata me te whaiwhai i te pātanga mā ngā pakihi Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā Pae Mataara katoa Ina pā he ohotata, whāia ngā aratohu ohotata whānui, tohutohu rānei mai i ngā mana ohotata. Ko tō haumarutanga te mea nui. Kia haumaru koe, whāia ngā whakatūpato ki te ārai i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i te tū tīrara, te mau ārai kanohi rānei. Mēnā he mōreareatanga ki tō oranga, kāinga rānei, me waea ki 111 ka tono i te Pirihimana, Whakaratonga Iwi, Waka Tūroro rānei. Rapu me aha koe i te wā o te ohotata Last updated: 12 October 2021 at 9:09 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake, kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . Mō te Pae Mataara 4 me: Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te huaketo me ngā tohu o te KOWHEORI-19 Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te whakamātautau Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te whaiwhai Hono Iarere Ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te Pae Mataara 4 mēnā he tāpuitanga tōu. E tuwhera tonu ana ngā whare kano ārai mate. Ka mahi tonu rātou i raro i ngā herenga o te Pae Mataara 4. E akiaki ana mātou i a koe kia whiwhi i te kano ārai mate kua oti kē te whakamahere. I te Pae Mataara 4, kua whakaturehia te mau maruhā: E akiakitia ana te mau maruhā i ngā wā e wehe atu ai koe i te kāinga. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi  He whāiti ngā haerenga e āheitia ana i te Pae Mataara 4 i tua atu i ngā take e whakaaetia ana i raro nei. Mēnā e haere ana koe mō tētahi take e whakaaetia ana, kāore e hiahiatia ana tētahi atu momo whakaaetanga ki te hāereere. Engari me mau haere tonu koe i tētahi taunakitanga o tō take hāereere. Mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 āu, i tata koe ki tētahi i whakamātauria e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, ko koe rānei i whakamātauria e pāngia ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, kaua e hāereere - ahakoa e whakaaetia ana - ā, me noho taratahi, ka waea atu ki te Healthline mō ētahi tohutohu, ā, kia whakamātauria. Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā pakihi Last updated: 30 August 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ka whakakapi te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19 i te pūnaha Taumata Whakatūpato onāianei e whakamahia ana e te kāwanatanga hei urupare ki te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ina eke te 90% o te whiwhi kano ārai a ngā tāngata o Aotearoa e āhei ana , ka haumaru te whakauru mai i tēnei pou tarāwaho hou. He whakamahi i tētahi aronga 3 taumata hei whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori: Ka taea e tātau te whakapiki ngā taumata ina hiahiatia ana hei whakahaere i ngā urutā. He ngāwari ake te pou tarāwaho i te pūnaha Taumata Whakatūpato onāianei. He nui ake te herekore o te hunga kua whiwhi kano ārai mate. I ngā taumata katoa, ka noho tuwhera te nuinga o ngā pakihi, ngā toa hokohoko me ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui ki te hunga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko ngā pakihi ka tuwhera anake ki ngā kiritaki whiwhi kano ārai mate he iti iho te mōrea. Ka kite koe i te ōwehenga o te hunga kua whiwhi i te weronga tuatahi, tuarua rānei, ā, ka whakataurite i tō rohe ki ētahi atu i Aotearoa. Rapua tō wāhi noho, tirohia rānei te mapi hei kimi i tō rohe. Ngā rahinga kano ārai mate ā-rohe Ka haere tonu ngā aromatawai, whaiwhai i te pātanga me te noho taratahi hei tikanga hira mō te whakaiti i te hōrapa o te huaketo. Ka whakamahia tonutia ngā rāhui ā-rohe mēnā ka tere piki ngā kēhi. Tērā pea ka mate tonu ki te whakamahi i ngā rāhui whānui ake. Hei neke i waenga taumata, ka whakaarohia e mātau te: He tikanga matatapu te tiwhikete kano ārai mate hei whakaatu kua whiwhi koe i ngā kano ārai mate katoa. He kōwhiringa te whai tiwhikete kano ārai mate mō ngā wāhi maha. Kei reira pea ētahi wāhi mōrea nui ake e hiahiatia ana ērā kia tuwhera ai ki te iwi whānui. Ka kōwhiri pea ngā pakihi, huihuinga, whakahaere, hapori me ngā tūmomo rāngai ki te whakauru mai i ngā whakaritenga kuhunga kano ārai mate e ai ki te ture mā ngā kiritaki. Mēnā kāore e hiahia ana tētahi pakihi, whakahaere, ratonga rānei ki te tono whakaaturanga kano ārai mate, me whakahaere rānei i raro i ngā tikanga tino whāiti mō ngā whakaritenga tokomaha me te whānui. Tērā pea ka mate rātau ki te kati i ngā taumata Karaka , Whero hoki/rānei. Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa 16 tau, pakeke atu rānei te uru ki ā rātau pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mā tētahi paetukutuku e kīia ana ko My Covid Record. I konei ka taea e koe te tikiake ngā tiwhikete kano ārai mate matihiko ā-motu, ā-ao me te kimi i ō otinga aromatawai KOWHEORI-19. My Covid Record (external link) Ko te Kākāriki kei roto ētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, me ētahi kēhi nō tāwāhi. Ka whāiti te rere ā-hapori, ā, ka taea te whakahaere te hunga kei rō hōhipera nā te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mataara te pūnaha hauora ki te urupare, tae atu ki ngā hauora matua, hauora tūmatanui, me ngā hōhipera. I te Karaka , ka nui haere te rere ā-hapori e pēhi ana i tā tātau pūnaha hauora. Ka aro ngā rawa katoa o te pūnaha hauora whānui, engari ka taea tonu te whakahaere te hauora matua, hauora tūmatanui, hōhipera hoki. Ka piki haere anō pea te mōrea mō te hunga noho mōrea. I te Whero , me tahuri ki te whakamaru i te hunga noho mōrea me te whakamaru i tā tātau pūnaha hauora kei pokea e te tokomaha rawa o te tāngata e uru ana ki rō hōhipera. Kia tino whai hua te noho i Aotearoa, me whiwhi kano ārai i tēnei rā. Mēnā kua whiwhi kano ārai mate, me whakapau kaha koe ki te āwhina i ō hoa me tō whānau ki te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia tere ake ai te pārekareka o ō tātau rā katoa i roto i te pūnaha hou. BookMyVaccine (external link) Last updated: 10 November 2021 at 1:46 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te tāpui i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Kia tae ki tō wā, ka taea e koe te tāpui i ō toronga kano ārai mate mā te ipurangi, mā te waea rānei. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui.  Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka nui ake pea ngā uruparenga i muri i te kainga tuarua o te rongoā ārai mate. Ka pāngia pea e ngā uruparenga kino rawa, engari, ruarua noa iho ngā wā e pēnei ana. Kua whakangungua ngā kaituku rongoā ārai mate ki te whakatikatika, te āwhina hoki ina pāngia te tangata e ēnei āhuatanga. Nā ngā uruparenga ka pāngia pea mō te wā poto tō āhei ki te taraiwa, te whakamahi rānei i ngā pūrere. Ki te puta tēnei āhuatanga, tēnā, kōrero ki tō kaitukumahi. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e whai pānga ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, pērā ki te maremare mutunga kore, he kirikā, he rerekē, ka ngaro rānei tō rongo ā-waha, ā-ihu rānei, me noho koe ki te kāinga ka whakamātauria ki te whakamātau KOWHEORI-19. Ki te raru pokanoa koe ki te wero KOWHEORI-19, me tuku pūrongo tō kaiwero ārai mate, mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E taea ai hoki te whakapūrongo i ngā uruparenga pokanoa ki tō rātou puka pūrongo ā-ipurangi kei runga i te paetukutuku o CARM otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mehemea kāore koe i te tino mōhio he aha te tikanga o ngā tohumate, ki te kaha ake rānei, me kōrero ki tō Tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mehemea kei te āwangawanga koe ki tō haumarutanga, waea atu ki 111 me te maumahara ki te kī atu kua whiwhi koe i tō wero ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai i a koe. He mea tiaki hoki te rongoā ārai mate i te tangata katoa ahakoa te pakeke ki ngā mate mau noa hoki, pērā ki te karawaka me te rewharewha. Tirohia kua whiwhi katoa koutou ko tō whānau i ngā wero ārai mate mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Me haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu kōrero. Me tatari mō te rua wiki rawa i muri i tō kainga tuarua o te wero KOWHEORI-19 i mua i ētahi atu wero ārai mate. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Ko te huarahi tere rawa o te whakarite i ō toronga kano ārai mate, ko te tāpui ā-tuihono mā Book My Vaccine (external link) . Mēnā kāore anō koe kia māraurau ki te tāpui, ka taea e koe te rēhita kia pai ai tā mātou whakamōhio atu i a koe i te wā tika mōu ki te tāpui. Ka āhua 5 mineti pea te roa o te tāpui ā-tuihono. Mēnā ka pā ētahi raruraru tāpui, e hiahia ana rānei koe ki te panoni i ō taipitopito, ka taea e koe te īmēra mai ki te rōpū o Book My Vaccine. Īmēra: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Book My Vaccine (external link) Ka taea e koe te tāpui mā te waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Me tatari pea koe i mua i te whakaututanga o tō waea, i te mea ka pokea ngā waea — kia manawanui mai. Kia whakautua tō waea, ka āhua 15 mineti ka pau ki te tāpui i ō toronga. Kia waea mai koe, he pai tonu mēnā e rite ana tō tau NHI (Taupū Hauora ā-Motu). Mā tēnei e tere ake ai te tukanga tāpui. Ka kitea tō tau NHI i runga i tētahi whakahau rongoā, tētahi hua whakamātau, whakaahua hihi-x, tētahi reta rānei mai i te hōhipera. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, me whakarite toronga anō. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia ora mai koe. Mēnā he tohumate āu o te KOWHEORI-19, haere kia whakamātautauria, ā, noho ki te kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō i ō hua. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia puta rā anō te whakamātautau e kī ana kāore koe i te pāngia ki te mate. I tua atu i te tāpui toronga, tērā ētahi atu huarahi e whiwhi ai te tangata i ngā kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate i te wāhi mahi me ētahi atu kaupapa kano ārai mate motuhake puta noa i te motu. Mō ētahi hapori tuawhenua mamao, ka tuku mātou i ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā reanga katoa i te wā kotahi kia māmā ake ai mō rātou. He nui hoki ngā tākuta e whakarato ana i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ā, whakarite tōtika ana i ngā tāpuitanga. Kia mōhio ai mēnā e tuku ana tō tākuta i tēnei ratonga, haere ki Healthpoint. Kano ārai mate COVID-19 — Healthpoint (external link) Last updated: 29 October 2021 at 2:30 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 12 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) Last updated: 20 August 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene, ā, ka tiakina tō matataputanga. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. I konei koe ka kite i ngā mōhiohio whaitake o te hunga e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate, tae atu ki ngā āhuatanga pēnei i tō pakeke, mēnā e hapū ana, e whāngote ana rānei, mēnā he pānga pāwera tāu ki te kano ārai mate i mua, mēnā rānei he tūmomo mate mauroa tāhau. E kore e taea e ngā tāngata i raro i te 12 tau te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i tēnei wā. Ko ngā whakaaturanga mai o te kano ārai mate, he tino whaihua, haumaru hoki mā ngā tāngata pakeke ake i te 65 tau. E pai ana mā te hunga kaimanga. Kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Kāore hoki he paturopi, he hua toto, he DNA, he pūmua, he matū kōpū, he kurutene, he hua poaka, he tāroki, he hoi, kāore rānei he latex (i hangaia mai te taupoki ipuipu i te rapa horihori - bromobutyl). Rapua te rārangi whakauru nui o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer (external link) Mēnā e hapū ana koe, ka taea e koe tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā wāhanga hapūtanga katoa. E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga mai i te maha o ngā tāngata hapū kua whiwhi kē i te kano ārai mate i te ao, kāore he māharahara haumaru tāpiri o te tuku i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka whai hua pea te pēpi mai i te tuku kano ārai mate i te hapūtanga, i te mea he taunakitanga e whakaatu ana i te tukunga o te paturopi i te toto taura me te waiū, e tuku ana pea i te āraitanga ki ngā pēpi mā te awhikiri taupoto. Mēnā he pātai āu, māharahara rānei, kōrerotia ki tō mātanga hauora. Mēnā e whakaaro ana koe i tētahi hapūtanga ka taea tonu e koe te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore e pā kinotia ō ira, tō matahua rānei e te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore te mRNA mai i te kano ārai mate e kuhu ki te karihi o ngā ira, te wāhi o tō DNA. Kāore he wāhanga o te kano ārai mate, o te pūmua koikoi rānei ka hua mai, e tae ki te wharekano, ngā raho rānei. Mēnā i pā tētahi pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrerotia atu tēnei ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora, kaituku kano rānei. Kaua e haere ki te tiki kano ārai mēnā he hītori tāu o te whai tauhohe pāwera tino taumaha: He aha kei roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, e aua atu te mate kirikā i te 38°C, me whakatārewa e koe tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia ora mai ai koe. Kāore e taea e koe te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e whiwhi ana koe i ētahi atu kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō tētahi wā, i runga anō i te āhua o te kano ārai mate. Tatari mō te 2 wiki i waenga i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te kano ārai mate rewharewha. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā wehenga o ēnei werohanga e rua. Ka taea e koe te kano ārai mate rewharewha atu i te 2 wiki i muri i tō werohanga tuarua. Mēnā kāore ō toronga whakarite mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, tīkina tō kano ārai mate rewharewha i te tuatahi. Ka taea e koe tō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 tuatahi i te 2 wiki i muri mai o tēnei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā i waenga i ēnei werohanga e rua. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 2 wiki i muri o te werohanga tuarua, i mua o tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate MMR. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate MMR i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 4 wiki i mua i tō whiwhinga i te werohanga tuatahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. Ka taea e koe te āheinga wawe ki te kano ārai mate mēnā kei tua koe o te 16 tau, ā, ka ea i a koe tētahi, ētahi rānei o ngā paearu nei: Mō ētahi atu tohutohu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te wā e pāngia ana e ngā mate taumaha, e whiwhi maimoatanga ana, mātaitanga, kai rongoā rānei, tēnā haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Kupu tohutohu kano ārai mate mā ngā rōpū motuhake me ngā tūmate hauora - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Last updated: 20 August 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Rapua ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate me ngā āhuatanga me whai ina pā ki a koe. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Kāore i pēnei rawa te nui o te mahi tahi ā-ao i waenganui i ngā kaipūtaiao me ngā kāwanatanga i te whanaketanga kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei i tere ake ai te whanaketanga o te kano ārai mate, ngā whakamātautau haumanu me ngā whakaaetanga puta noa i te ao. I tere tonu te whanaketanga o ngā kano ārai mate engari kāore i whāia ngā pokatata i ngā tukanga matea, te whakamōrea rānei i te haumarutanga. I taea e ngā kairangahau te whakamahi i ō rātou mōhiotanga o ētahi atu huaketo korona me te whanaketanga kano ārai mate e ahu whakamua ai rātou. I taea hoki e ngā whakamātautau haumanu te kimi wawe i ngā kaitūao huhua nā te aronga nui me te māharahara o te ao whānui ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ētahi whakamātautau haumanu ka taea te mahi ngātahi, kaua i te huarahi raupapa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, ka taea wawe e ngā kaipūtaiao te whakatau mēnā i whaihua te kano ārai mate i te wā poto - otirā i ngā āhuatanga auau, ka hia marama, tau rānei te roa o tēnei mahi. Kua tū ngā whare whakanao nui, e taea ai te hanga wawe i ngā kano ārai mate, ā, me te rahi ake hoki, otirā kāore i taea i mua Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka arotake ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Ka tuku whakaaetanga anake a Medsafe mō te whakamahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, kia tau rā anō ō rātou whakaaro mō te ekenga ki ngā paerewa kaha mō te haumaru, te kaha ārai whakapokenga me te kounga. He tukanga ōrite tēnei i whakamahia ki te aromatawai i ētahi atu rongoā, pērā i te kano ārai mate rewharewha. Kāore he pokatata i whāia i te tukunga o tēnei whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate Pfizer. E aroturukuhia tonutia ana mō te haumarutanga Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te tikanga o tēnā, kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Puta noa i ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i rangahautia te kano ārai mate Pfizer i runga i te 44,000 kaiwhakauru. Ko te huarua o te hunga nei i whiwhi i te kano ārai mate, ko tētahi atu haurua i whiwhi placebo mātaitai. Nō ngā mātāwaka whānui, ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira me ngā tūmomo mate whānui anō hoki ngā kaiwhakauru. E toru ngā wāhanga whakamātautau i kuhu atu ai te kano ārai mate Pfizer: E māramai ai ki te kaha ārai mau roa me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate, e haurapatia ana ngā kaiwhakauru o ēnei whakamātautau haumanu mō te 2 tau atu anō i muri mai i tō rātou werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. I konei ka kitea e koe ngā kōrero nui mō te mahi o kano ārai mate. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer he kano ārai mate mRNA Kei roto ko te waehere ā-ira mō tētahi wāhanga nui o te huaketo SARS-CoV-2 (KOWHEORI-19) e kīia nei ko te 'pūmua koikoi'. Ko nga pūmua koikoi ngā tara iti i runga i te mata o te wheori. Kia whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate, ka pānuitia e tō tinana te waehere ā-ira, ā, ka tango kape o te pūmua koikoi. Ka kitea e tō pūnaha awhikiri ēnei pūmua koikoi, ā, ka ako ki te āhukahuka, me te whawhai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mōhio ia me pēhea te whakaeke i te huaketo hei ārai i te horapatanga ki tō tinana. Kātahi ka wāwāhitia te waehere ā-ira mai i te kano ārai mate, ka tere, ka māmā hoki te tangohia e tō tinana. Kāore ngā kano ārai mate mRNA e puri i te huaketo e tuku ana i te KOWHEORI-19, tētahi atu huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei. Kāore he painga, he tauwhitiwhiti ranei ki ō DNA, ki ō ira ranei. e kore e uru ngā kano ārai mate mRNA ki te puku o te pūtau, kei reira e mau ana ō tātau DNA. I whanaketia ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mā roto i ngā mahi ngātahitanga ā-ao nui. Kua rangahau, kua mahi hoki ngā kairangahau i ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mō ngā tau maha. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā rangahau o ngā kano ārai mate rewharewha, Zika, rabies me te cytomegalovirus (CMV). Kua rangahaua hoki e ngā kaipūtaiao ngā pokenga mate korona i mua pēnei i te SARS me te MERS. Nō te tautuhitanga o ngā kaipūtaiao i te mate korona e puta ai te KOWHEORI-19, i tere tā rātou urutau i ngā hangarau mō te KOWHEORI-19. Ahakoa he hangarau āhua hou tēnei, i whāia tonutia ngā tikanga arowhai haumaru me ngā waehere. Kei roto hoki ko ngā whakamātautau haumanu ā-ao hei āwhina ki te whakaatu i te kaha ārai pokenga me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate.E whakamahia ana te kano ārai mate Pfizer puta noa i te ao, ā, e haere tonu ana, ngā mahi aroturuki tata mō tōna whaihuatanga me te haumarutanga. Last updated: 20 August 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i te 1-2 rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te werohanga tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka pā kinotia taupuatia pea tō āhei ki te hautū waka, te whakahaere pūrere rānei i ngā pānga kino. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Ngā pānga kino tauhou, onge hoki - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e manawarau ana tō noho, ka taea e koe te: Mēnā he āwangawanga āu, e māuiui ana rānei i muri mai i tō werohanga, kōrero ki tō tākuta ā-whānau, tētahi atu mātanga hauora rānei, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā e māharahara ana koe mō tō oranga, waea ki 111. Whakamōhio atu kua whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai tika i a koe. He wā anō ka pā ngā pāwera kino engari he tino onge. Mēnā i pā tētahi tauhohenga pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki a koe i tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrero ki tō kaituku kano i tō taenga atu ki tō toronga tuku kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā tētahi tauhohenga i te wā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ka tau atu tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te tiaki i a koe. Ko te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) he pātengi raraunga o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Ka aroturuki a CARM i tēnei mōhiohio ki te tautuhi i ngā take hei āwhina i te whakamahinga haumaru me te tūtohu rongoā. Ina hiahia koe, ka taea e koe te whāki i ō pānga kino. Mā te whāki i ō pānga taha ka whai wāhi koe ki ngā raraunga e kohia ana i te ao, ā, me te āwhina ki te tautuhi i ngā tauira i Aotearoa me ngā tūpono take haumaru. Whākina ō pānga kino ki te CARM (external link) Ngā pānga kino i whākina i Aotearoa (external link) Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene. Ko wai e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer anake te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia i Aotearoa. Kua riro i a mātou te 10 miriona werohanga - ka nui tēnei mō te 5 miriona tāngata, kia whiwhi i ngā werohanga e 2 e tika ana kia āraitia. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer: Me whiwhi koe i tō werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate i te 42 rā, neke atu rānei (6 wiki) i muri mai i te werohanga tuatahi. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i muri i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapu kōrero mō ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate Ka aromatawaitia ngā tono o ngā rongoā hou katoa e te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa e Medsafe. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā kano ārai mate. Kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o tētahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, me whakapono ia ka: He tino whaihua te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā ka whiwhi te tangata i ngā werohanga e rua. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i pehea te whanaketanga me te whakaaetanga o te kano ārai mate Kia whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, kāore koe i te tiaki noa iho i a koe. E whai wāhi ana koe ki te whakaititanga o te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. He wawe rawa i tēnei wā ki te whai mōhio mēnā ka taea e koe te tuku i te huaketo i muri mai o te werohanga ārai mate. Hei āwhina ki te ārai i a koutou ko tō whānau me ētahi atu, me āwhina tonu koe ki te ārai i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19 i muri mai i te werohanga kano ārai mate. Ki mahara ki te: He nui ngā mōhiohio tuihono, pae pāpori hoki mō te kano ārai mate. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono mō ngā kano ārai mate E rapu ana mātou i ētahi atu kaituku kano ārai mate hei tautoko i te whakaputanga o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā he mātanga hauora kua tāoki, kāore rānei i te mahi i tēnei wā i te ahumahi hauora, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki te tū hei kaitūao, haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora ki te rēhita i tō hiahia. Rēhitatia tō hiahia ki te tū hei kaituku kano ārai mate (external link) Last updated: 25 August 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: Rapua ngā meka [PDF, 270 KB] COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Rapua he kōrero me aha koe ina haere atu ana i Aotearoa, hoki mai ana rānei Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ka noho tonu ko te kauparenga nui mō tātou ko te ārai atu i te huaketo mai i Aotearoa. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi te nuinga o ngā kaihāereere ki Aotearoa i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua i te wehe e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana, i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga tuatahi ki tāwāhi. Ka wātea ngā whenua e whai ake nei i tētahi whakamātau i mua i te wehenga: Kua whakaūngia e te Manatu Hauora ngā momo whakamātautau e whai ake nei e whakaaetia ana mō ngā whenua katoa hāunga ngā whenua o Ahitereiria me ngā whenua tino mōrearea: E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi ngā kaihāereere mai i Ahitereiria i ngā whakamātautau PCR, RT-PCR rānei i mua i te wehenga. Me whai taunakitanga rawa ngā kaihāereere mai i ngā whenua tino mōrearea o tētahi whakamātautau ihu-korokoro RT-PCR (PCR) e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana. Kimihia ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whenua tino mōrearea Ka wātea ngā tamariki i raro iho i te rua tau (24 marama) i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ka wātea ngā kaihāereere e whakawhiti ana mā Aotearoa ki tō rātou taunga whakamutunga, me te noho i te taha rerenga, i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ko ngā kaihāereere kāore e āhei atu te whai whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, me toro atu ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga. Me tuku rātou i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā ki a koe e kī ana e kore koe e āhei ki te whai tētahi whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, ā, kāore i a koe ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he whakamātautau tāu i mua i te wehenga e kī ana kua whai tohumate koe, engari e whakapono ana koe nā tētahi whakapokenga o mua o te KOWHEORI-19, me toro atu koe ki tētahi tākuta māna koe e tirotiro mō ngā tohumate hou o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tino mōhio ana ia kāore i a koe tētahi pokenga KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā tonu, māna e tuku ki a koe: E whakaaetia ana ngā tiwhikete rongoā i roto i ngā reo kē. E tino tohutohua ana te hunga haere ki te pātai ki tō(ō) rātau kamupene rererangi mō ētahi atu whakaritenga whakamātau i mua i te wehenga. E tohutohua ana hoki rātau kia tirotirohia nga whakaritenga o ētahi atu whenua ka whakawhitia e rātau. Kia tae ki Aotearoa, e hiahiatia ana te nuinga o te hunga haere, hāunga ērā e haere mai ana hei wāhi ote Haerenga Taratahi Kore , kia: Ko te tikanga ka 24-48 hāora te roa i mua i te whiwhinga i ngā hua whakamātautau. Mēnā ka kī te whakamātautau kāore te tangata i te mate, ka tutuki i a ia te toenga o te 14 rā i roto i te wāhi noho mohoao. Ka whakaritea kia whakamātautauria anō rātou i te rā 3 pea o te noho, ā, me te rā 12. I te nuinga o ngā kēhi, e hiahiatia ana tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore te tangata i te mate me te whakaūtanga mai i tā mātou rōpū hauora he iti te mōrearea kua pāngia, o te horapa rānei i te KOWHEORI-19, i mua i te wehenga i te whare noho. Mēnā e ai ki te otinga kei te pāngia te tangata, ka whakawhitia taua tangata ki te whare noho taratahi i mua noa atu mēnā kāore he whakamātautau rā 0. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō te Haere Taratahi Kore Mō ngā whakahounga hou rawa o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā toro atu ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi tēnā toro atu ki: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) Last updated: 7 July 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Puka Hāereere Taratahi Kore: Ahitereiria (Australia) → Aotearoa kua whakatārewatia (Suspended) He 7-rā te wā e wātea ana mō ‘ngā rerenga hoki kākāriki’ mai i ngā rohe takiwā katoa o Ahitereiria (hāunga a NSW) kia hoki ai te hunga haere ki te kāinga. Kāore te hunga hoki i runga i ēnei rerenga e mate ki te noho taratahi i te hokinga atu, engari anō mēnā kei te haere atu koe mai i Victoria . Tēnā hihiratia auautia te whārangi Hāereere Taratahi-Kore kei te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 mō ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Ki te raru ō whakaritenga hāereere, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki tō pakihi rererangi, kaiwhakarite hāereere me te kaiinihua hāereere. I tēnei wā, he ritenga Taratahi-Kore tō Aotearoa me ēnei motu: Ko te tikanga o te Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te neke mai i tētahi motu ki tētahi me te kore noho taratahi inā ka tae atu koe. Kāore hoki he take o te whakamātautau i mua i tāu wehenga. Ka taea e te tangata te Haere Taratahi-Kore noa inā tatū ngā paearu ritenga, me ngā ritenga take manene o te motu e haere nā koe. I tēnei wā, ko ngā Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te haere i waenganui o Aotearoa me tētahi atu motu anake. Hei tauira, ka āhei koe ki te Haere Taratahi-Kore i waenganui o Kūki Airani me Aotearoa, engari me noho taratahi rawa koe mō te 14 rā i mua i te haerenga ki te whenua Taratahi-Kore o Ahitereiria. Māna kei te noho kape koe, me mau ārai kanohi, uhi kanohi rānei inā haere mai ana koe ki Aotearoa, inā wehe atu ana rānei. Me mau ārai kanohi hoki koe i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui katoa o Aotearoa. Ko ētahi anō tāngata kāore he take ki te mau ārai kanohi. Ki te panoni Te Pae Mataara ki Aotearoa, ki te rerekē rānei te āhuatanga ki tētahi motu Haere Taratahi-Kore, ka pāhongia e tēnei pae tukutuku ( covid19.govt.nz ), me ngā pae tukutuku rongo kōrero. Ki te puta anō te mate ki te hapori i Aotearoa nei, i tētahi motu Taratahi-Kore rānei, tērā ka whakatūria e te Kāwanatanga te haere taratahi-kore hei aromātai i te tūraru, tērā rānei hīkina ngā haerenga mō tētahi wā roa ake. Me whai mahere te hunga haere, me rite hoki mō te tūpono raru rānei i ōu haerenga. Tirohia mai ngā whakamārama hou rawa mō Te Haere Taratahi-Kore E āhei ai koe ki te haere taratahi-kore ki Aotearoa: Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakamātautau wehe tōmua Tāutangia, whakamahia hoki te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Kāore he raru nō Aotearoa rānei tō waea pūkoro, tō kaute Āporo, tō kaute Kūkara rānei, mō te tāuta i te Kaiaru KOWHEORI. Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā kei a koe ngā tohumate o te hūwiniwini, o te rewharewha o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki: Mā te mātanga hauora e tohu atu mēnā me whakamātautau koe. Tēnā waea atu ki tō rata i mua i tō haerenga atu mēnā he tohumate ōu. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Ahitereiria: I a koe i Ahitereiria, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. Mō ngā whakamārama mõ te KOWHEORI-19, mō ngā wāhi aronui, mō ngā tūāhua haerenga (tae atu ki ngā haerenga o te motu) me ngā whakamātautau, haere koa ki te pae tukutuku o te rohe kei reira koe. E whai ake nei ko ngā pārongo KOWHEORI-19 mō ia rohe, mō ia takiwā rānei: Arā tonu tētahi taupānga aru mō Ahitereiria whānui, engari he taupānga kē tō te nuinga o ia rohe o ia takiwā. Ka taea e koe te tāuta i te nuinga o ēnei taupānga me te kāri SIM o Aotearoa. Me whai pea koe i tētahi kāri SIM o Ahitereiria, i ngā taipitopito whakapā o Ahitereiria rānei, hei whakamahi i ētahi o ēnei taupānga. Ko tā mātou ki a koutou, me puri ēnei taupānga ki tō waea mō te 1 marama, mō te tūpono whiwhi whakatūpatotanga koe whai muri i tō wehenga atu i te rohe. Ki te kore e taea, e pīrangitia rānei te whakamahi i te taupānga, me whakamahi rawa e koe ngā taupānga a ngā pakihi ake me ngā toa ake, i mua i tō takiurutanga. Tāutangia ngā taupānga ā-rohe: Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka waea atu ki te rata mō ētahi āwhina. Waea atu ki te nama waea ā-Motu mō te rongoā ārai mate korona, KOWHEORI-19, ki te nama waea 1800 020 080 . Kāore he utu mō te waea atu i roto o Ahitereiria. Ka āhei ki te waea atu i ngā haora 24 o te rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Kūki Airani: I a koe i Kūki Airani, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. He whakamārama anō kei te pae tukutuku a te Kāwanatanga o Kūki Airani (external link) He pūnaha rerekē tō Kūki Airani. Māu rawa e: Ka mahi tahi te taupānga CookSafe+ me te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Ko ngā waehere (ngā kī rānei) o Bluetooth ka tonoa mai, ka kohia rānei e te taupānga i tō waea mā tētahi o ngā taupānga nei, ka tuwhera anō ki tētahi atu. Ka mahi ngātahi ngā taupānga nei, ā, ka tangi te tūtei mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga i pāngia nei e te KOWHEORI-19. Mō ētahi atu whakamārama mō te KĀRI QR o CookSafe (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i Kūki Airani, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka ūhia tō kanohi, mēnā he uhi kanohi tōu. Kaua e whakamahi i ngā waka tūmatanui. Waea atu ki te waea-hauora Healthline o Kūki Airani i te nama waea 29667 mō ētahi āwhina. Last updated: 23 July 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you are ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Encourage visitors to use NZ COVID Tracer You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your system. Guidance on mandatory record keeping for contact tracing | privacy.org.nz (external link)  We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages Last updated: 11 November 2021 at 1:37 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Looking for information in other languages? Information in 30+ languages Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. What travel is permitted with Alert Level 3 and 4, travel across Alert Level boundaries and the Alert Level boundary map. Information about travelling on public transport and in private vehicles, and travelling between regions. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about how to travel to New Zealand, border controls when you arrive and registering with SafeTravel. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you cannot get home. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders. Download and print resources like posters for wearing face coverings on transport and tracking your journey. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information about travelling on public transport and in private vehicles, and travelling between regions. Advice on how to travel safely on public transport, including buses, trains, domestic flights, taxis and ride-shares. Advice about how to travel safely in a private vehicle. Advice for travelling between different regions of New Zealand. Advice for walking, cycling and other active travel. What travel is permitted across Alert Level boundaries, and the Alert Level boundary map. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you are living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you have been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you have visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering If you are sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor to find out if you should get a test. If you are advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick If you are living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2 for any reason, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you are sick, please do not travel at all — stay home and get tested. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the flight. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small plane or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Travel into, out of or through an Alert Level 3 area is restricted. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we can keep our loved ones and communities safe. Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. At Alert Level 3 you can only travel locally, and for allowed reasons. For example, going to work or school if you must, or for shopping or to get exercise. Travelling on public transport Travelling in a private vehicle At Alert Level 4, travel is strictly limited. Air travel will be used only to transport: Other permitted reasons include: Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 Do not travel if you: Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. Last updated: 24 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Help limit the spread of any virus by staying at home if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If that is not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Living at Alert Level 1 At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Living at Alert Level 2 Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area, for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. You can travel in a private car only for the following reasons: Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for businesses and services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Living at Alert Level 3 Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel into, through or out of an Alert Level 3 area needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Using private vehicles for transport is allowed for essential personal movement. You should not travel if you: You should only travel in your car with people from your household bubble. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can use a private car to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. If someone in your household bubble needs help to travel for essential personal movement, you can travel with them. You can travel with them by any method, like public transport, taxis or ride-shares, or private car. Regional travel at Alert Level 4 If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport where possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. For information about getting a warrant of fitness (WoF), driver licence or vehicle licence (rego) at Alert Level 4, visit the Waka Kotahi — NZ Transport Agency website. Vehicle inspection — Waka Kotahi (external link) Last updated: 21 October 2021 at 9:13 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Everyone 12 years and older legally must wear a face covering on public transport at all Alert Levels. Drivers of taxi and ride-share services legally must wear face coverings. Passengers of taxi and ride-share services legally must wear a face covering at Alert Level 2 and above, but are only encouraged at Alert Level 1. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Living at Alert Level 1 At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Remember to be kind and respectful to drivers and your fellow passengers. Living at Alert Level 2 Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland You can take a domestic flight anywhere in New Zealand at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you need to cross an Alert Level boundary, you need to check if you are permitted to travel. Travel across Alert Level boundaries You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. To help achieve physical distancing, numbers of people on public transport are limited. You must be seated when you are on public transport — the service will not be able to carry passengers who are standing. This rule does not apply to: If you think your service may be full, you could plan your journey to travel later or earlier than your usual time. it is a good idea to speak with your employer to see if you can change your work hours, or work flexibly. Remember to be kind and respectful to drivers and your fellow passengers. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use public transport for only the following reasons: Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services for only the following reasons: Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Living at Alert Level 3 Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. You can use public transport for essential personal movement. This includes taxis and rideshares. We recommend you do not travel if you: You must keep 1 metre apart from everyone on public transport and at transport stations, where possible. There are some situations where this is not possible, for example in a taxi or ride-share. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. To help achieve physical distancing, numbers of people on public transport are limited. You must be seated when you are on public transport — the service will not be able to carry passengers who are standing. This rule does not apply to: If you think your service may be full, you could plan your journey to travel later or earlier than your usual time. it is a good idea to speak with your employer to see if you can change your work hours, or work flexibly. Remember to be kind and respectful to drivers and your fellow passengers. Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home. You must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can use public transport to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can show you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. If someone in your household bubble needs help to travel for essential personal movement, you can travel with them. You can travel with them by any method, like public transport, taxis or ride-shares, or private car. If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport if possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Last updated: 21 October 2021 at 9:05 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Personal walks and other active travel like cycling or scootering are fine, as long as you keep 2 metres away from anyone not in your household bubble. You can use shared bicycles or scooters. Full list of reasons to travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) Stick to simple outdoor exercise and avoid areas where you can get injured or lost. It is important emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Sports and recreation at Alert Level 4 If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can walk, cycle or use other active travel like scooters to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. Last updated: 19 August 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can use international air services to travel home. However, there may be limited options available. If you cannot secure a ticket, contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. You may be required to self-isolate or enter managed isolation when you arrive, so it is best to check it now. Embassies will be able to help you find information. You may find that you are not allowed to transit through certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they can let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, so make sure you book your flight before you arrive at the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours before departure. You are responsible for understanding how to meet the conditions of your visa in New Zealand at all times. Verify the details of current New Zealand visas | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Immigration NZ provides information on visa extensions, new visa expiry dates and changes to visa conditions. Visit the Immigration NZ website to check information about your visa. Visa extensions and visa conditions | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 16 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Entry to New Zealand is strictly controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. The Government requires non-New Zealand citizens to be fully vaccinated before travelling to New Zealand by air. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. Travel from 'very high risk' countries to New Zealand is currently restricted. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except the Cook Islands. For the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas  If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand When you are vaccinated in New Zealand, you get a purple vaccination card. These cards have basic information about your vaccination appointment, but they may not be recognised as proof of your vaccination by overseas countries. If you need written confirmation of your COVID-19 vaccination for international travel, you can request a letter from the Ministry of Health. Make sure you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to and find out what vaccination proof they need. Request proof of vaccination (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with Australia and the Cook Islands. Due to the recent community outbreak, quarantine-free travel to Australia and the Cook Islands is paused.  Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) Last updated: 7 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The length of time you must now spend in MIQ is 7 days, followed by a period of self-isolation. You can leave self-isolation once you have received a negative ‘day 9’ COVID-19 test result. New self-isolation requirements | health.govt.nz (external link) Almost all travellers are legally required to have a voucher confirming their place in MIQ before boarding their flight. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. If you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to book your voucher and complete your stay in our MIQ facilities. By staying in MIQ, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 180,000 people have completed their MIQ stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in an MIQ facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter MIQ and so you do not need a voucher. How you get your voucher has changed. Now, you enter a virtual lobby up to 1 hour before room release. Everyone in the lobby has an equal chance of securing a room. Once the room release starts, everyone in the lobby will be moved into a queue. Your place in the queue is random. This means you do not need to keep refreshing your web browser, and you do not need to be the fastest to secure a room. MIQ will announce room releases at least 24 to 48 hours before they become available. How to get your voucher| miq.govt.nz (external link) About the virtual lobby | miq.govt.nz (external link) Get your voucher (external link) You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) The Government recovers some of the costs for MIQ. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for MIQ, and who needs to pay | miq.govt.nz (external link) Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your facility to complete the rest of your stay. You will be tested for COVID-19 again around day 3 and day 5/6 of your stay. You can leave MIQ after 7 full days, if your test results are negative. You will isolate at home for around 3 days. You will have to get a PCR test on day 9, and stay at home until you have a negative result.  When you arrive in New Zealand you are checked for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: Both types of facilities are located within hotels. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Exemptions from managed isolation are approved in very few circumstances. Applications for exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website has information about exemptions, including: Apply for an exemption from staying in MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) From 22 November 2021, 300 places a month in MIQ will be allocated for critical health and disability workers entering New Zealand for employment in a critical health and disability role. Visit the Ministry of Health website for more on eligibility criteria and how to apply. Dedicated MIQ places for critical health and disability workers | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 3:50 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. This page is about proof of vaccination if you are travelling to New Zealand. Get information about proof of vaccination to leave New Zealand Non-New Zealand citizens must be fully vaccinated before travelling to New Zealand by air. In this case, “fully vaccinated” means it has been at least 14 days after your last dose. You will need to tell managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) your vaccination status when you book your voucher. You must still have the right to enter New Zealand. The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must be fully vaccinated. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. You do not need to be vaccinated before travelling to New Zealand. This means that you need to: A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. Check the list of COVID-19 vaccines that are accepted for entry into New Zealand. They have been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority. Approved COVID-19 vaccines for entry into NZ (external link)  Some people do not need to have evidence they are fully vaccinated. We also know that some people cannot get vaccinated for medical reasons. You do not need to have evidence you have been fully vaccinated if you: You do not need to apply for an exemption. Foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand are not exempt from the requirements — they must carry evidence of being vaccinated on arrival in New Zealand. If you cannot be vaccinated for some reason, you may be able to apply for an exemption. Apply for an exemption if you have not had time to be fully vaccinated before your travel date, you have a voucher for MIQ, and you are travelling with a New Zealand citizen who is your: Apply for an exemption if you cannot easily get vaccinations in the country that you have spent the previous 6 months before your journey to New Zealand. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can be given an exemption. Apply for an exemption (external link) If you are not a New Zealand citizen and you are required to be fully vaccinated, you need to provide evidence that: You may be asked to provide evidence of your vaccination or exemption to your airline when you check in for your travel to New Zealand. You also need to provide this evidence to NZ Customs. You need a digital vaccine passport or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: Your evidence must confirm your last dose was at least 14 days before departure for New Zealand. You must have an electronic or paper medical certificate from a medical practitioner that says you cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. You must have an electronic or paper copy of the exemption letter from the Director-General of Health. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to: Some people are exempt from these requirements. Reasons you can enter New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Secure your place in MIQ Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 10:12 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You may have been asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you arrived in New Zealand from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021. Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021 We carried out a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected information to help inform government policy. It did not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) led the survey in partnership with 10 other government agencies, including the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Stats NZ, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Development, Te Tūāpapa Kura Kāinga, Ministry of Education, Ministry for Primary Industries, Te Puni Kōkiri, Treasury and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd was contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. You were invited to do the survey if you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 and you were 18 years or over. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd were given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. Your completion of the survey was voluntary. The survey took about 12 minutes to complete, and participants could do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. This survey is now closed and no further respondents will be contacted to participate. Your answers have been combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agreed to take part in further research, your contact details were sent to the research team at MBIE. This information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz MBIE has published the final results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Results from the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals: Findings for arrivals between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 [PDF, 917 KB]  The survey is now complete and this is the final reporting of high-level data for all arrivals during the survey period. Further Māori-focused results will be available in November 2021. Last updated: 21 October 2021 at 9:55 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who can transit through New Zealand, and who needs an NZeTA or transit visa. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can transit New Zealand to or from Australia. Flight availability may be limited — check with your airline if flights are available. You must meet all requirements for transiting New Zealand — check this page to find out what you need to do. You must also meet all requirements for your final destination. These requirements may include valid visas to enter the country, negative pre-departure test results and proof of vaccination. Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you’re entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: What to do if you’re staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you’re transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you’re travelling though and your final destination. You cannot transit New Zealand if you do not meet all the requirements of your final destination. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you need to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 before flying to New Zealand from 1 November 2021. If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must be fully vaccinated. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Last updated: 3 November 2021 at 9:51 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government has created a ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: We added Fiji and Indonesia to this list on 11 August. Travel will be restricted from Fiji and Indonesia from 11:59pm (NZT) on 15 August 2021. Travellers to New Zealand from very high risk countries are temporarily restricted to: Dependent children are children under 18 years old. Partners of New Zealand citizens can be a spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner. If you are a non-New Zealand citizen, you must hold a valid visa to enter New Zealand. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ (external link) All other travellers, including people holding residence class visas, must spend at least 14 days outside of very high risk countries before flying to New Zealand. You can transit through a very high risk country without having to spend 14 days outside the country before you travel to New Zealand. There is no limit on the amount of time you may spend transiting through a very high risk country, but you must stay airside. This means you will stay at the airport and not enter the country. All travellers from Fiji can transit New Zealand to other countries. You must stay airside, which means you will stay at the airport and not enter the country. You must spend less than 24 hours in transit in New Zealand. All travellers from very high risk countries (except Fiji) must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test result from a government-approved laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes lists of laboratories in very high risk countries that are approved to conduct COVID-19 tests. Lists of approved laboratories (external link) Travellers from Fiji do not need to get pre-departure tests. This is because it is not easy to access tests and there are delays in receiving results.  The Director-General of Health may grant exemptions for humanitarian reasons. You can find out more about the exemptions process at the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an exemption (external link) The Government considers the following factors, among others, when deciding to designate a country as very high risk: Resurgence of COVID-19 is happening in a number of countries, and there are further waves of infections in many countries as new variants of the COVID-19 virus arise. This means New Zealand expects to see more returnees with COVID-19 from these areas. This increase in cases will place pressure on our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) systems and increase the risk of a community outbreak. This is particularly important as countries deal with the Delta variant of COVID-19. The New Zealand Government has responded by creating a very high risk country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The Government will review this decision regularly. If you are a New Zealander in a very high risk country, make sure you register your travel and contact details with SafeTravel. Register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the country you're in (external link) In the 14 days before leaving there are things you can do to help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it to New Zealand with you: We added information in Fijian and Indonesian and updated the other languages on 11 August 2021. We added information in Tok Pisin on 12 August. Last updated: 1 November 2021 at 12:40 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you will need to be fully vaccinated to travel to New Zealand from 1 November 2021. In this case, “fully vaccinated” means it has been at least 14 days after your last dose. There are some exceptions, and some people could apply for an exemption. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand The New Zealand borders are closed to many travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Anyone arriving in New Zealand by air or sea must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Check your eligibility to travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Travel from very high risk countries is currently restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Travel restrictions for very high risk countries New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Most people must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get pre-departure tests. Requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you need to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 before flying to New Zealand from 1 November 2021. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand It is important that people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you are returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete a stay in managed isolation or quarantine, unless you are arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. Quarantine-free travel Quarantine-free travel from Australia to New Zealand is suspended from 11:59pm on 23 July 2021. RSE workers from Vanuatu, Samoa and Tonga can begin entering New Zealand under one-way quarantine-free travel. Workers from Vanuatu can arrive from 4 October 2021. Workers from Samoa and Tonga can arrive from 12 October 2021. Workers arriving under the scheme must: Employers must provide facilities for the workers to self-isolate in. Workers must also get their second COVID-19 vaccine dose after they arrive, if they do not have it already. Recognised Seasonal Employer (RSE) scheme | immigration.govt.nz (external link) International transit through New Zealand If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: More help from SafeTravel (external link) Self-isolation is part of the Government’s plan for re-opening borders and allowing more people to visit and return home to New Zealand without the requirement to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). A self-isolation pilot over October and December 2021 will test some of the systems and processes that would be needed to roll out self-isolation more widely. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) will administer the pilot. Last updated: 2 November 2021 at 10:12 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Consular staff in New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot book a space in MIQ or a flight to New Zealand for you. Get emergency consular help by calling: More help from SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand borders are closed to many travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Anyone arriving in New Zealand by air or sea must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Check your eligibility to travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Travel from very high risk countries is currently restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Travel restrictions for very high risk countries New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) Plan your travel to New Zealand It is important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you are returning to New Zealand you legally must complete a stay in managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ), unless you are arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you are in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) Last updated: 3 November 2021 at 1:49 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. What travel is permitted with Alert Level 3 and 4, travel across Alert Level boundaries and the Alert Level boundary map. Alert Level boundaries help stop the spread of the virus. Travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited, and you need to check whether you can travel. Personal movement within the Alert Level 3 areas is limited, except for essential personal movement. Personal movement at Alert Level 4 is limited, except for the permitted reasons. Personal travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. Business and work travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Alert Level boundaries help stop the spread of the virus. Travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited, and you need to check whether you can travel. Parts of Waikato will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 16 November 2021. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2, and the rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Refinements to this map are in development. This map is in beta, please provide any feedback via this form (external link) (external link) . Personal and business travel across an Alert Level boundary is strictly limited. The Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across Alert Level boundaries if that travel is permitted. You also need to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. You can apply for an exemption if your reason to cross an Alert Level boundary is not permitted. You should stay home, unless it is essential to do otherwise. Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland Movement within the Alert Level 3 area is limited, except for permitted reasons. If you are leaving home for one of the permitted reasons, you do not require any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home. Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner uses the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures to help you plan your journey. Use Journey Planner (external link) Journey Planner also provides updates on the latest traffic information at Alert Level 3 checkpoints. Find out the latest traffic information at the checkpoints (external link) Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. For those in the Waikato Alert Level 3 areas, the current travel restrictions in force at the Auckland boundary apply. However, the testing regime in place for travellers out of Auckland do not apply. Business or work travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level boundary if that travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. The following reasons for business or work travel are permitted. You can travel in and out of the Waikato Alert Level 3 area for limited permitted reasons. This includes for work in permitted business and services. You can also cross into the Waikato Alert Level 3 area from an Alert Level 2 area to work in any business or service which is open in the Alert Level 3 area. But you cannot cross from the Waikato Alert Level 3 area to work in an Alert Level 2 area, except for work in permitted businesses and services. If you are travelling in and out of the Waikato Alert Level 3 area — other than across the boundary with Auckland — you are not required to provide evidence of a recent test. A formal business travel document is not required however we recommend you source a letter from your employer confirming place of work and need to travel. If your business travel across the boundary is permitted, you are already allowed to cross the boundary. You do not need to apply for an exemption to travel. Your employer needs to make sure: You should have evidence to travel across the boundary The Business Travel Document can be used as evidence of your right to travel across the boundary. Having one makes crossing the boundary quicker and easier. Get your Business Travel Document (external link) Other evidence of your purpose of travel is also acceptable, for example, freight or delivery vehicles could provide delivery dockets. Find examples of evidence in the permitted travel section on this page. You should also have a form of photo ID. Every person travelling should carry evidence — you may not be able to cross the boundary if you do not have it. Make sure you have printed copies of your evidence, or electronic copies on your device. You cannot use Business Travel Documents from previous Alert Level lockdowns, for example from February 2021. You must register for new ones. If you are travelling to an area at a lower Alert Level, make sure you follow safety precautions if you stop, such as: Remember to keep a record of where you have stopped, using the NZ COVID Tracer app or a physical record. If your reason for travelling is not permitted but you think you have an essential reason to travel for work, you can apply for an exemption. Requests will need to meet criteria. Nominate an authorised person who will apply on behalf of the business. They should understand the business travel operations, like who needs to travel, which boundaries they need to cross and why their travel is essential. Employees cannot register. The authorised person needs to apply for them. Note that exemption applications will not be processed until a Health Order is in place. Apply for an exemption to cross the Alert Level boundary (external link) Travel across the Alert Level boundaries is restricted to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Workers who are moving around create more risk of transmission of the virus than people who are staying at home. This additional testing will provide assurance that travel is being done safely. The Government is introducing a requirement for most workers who need to cross Alert Level boundaries to get tested. Most employers of workers who need to cross Alert Level boundaries for work must have a process in place to allow workers to be tested for COVID-19. This includes allowing workers to undergo testing, medical examination, or both, during their work hours. Most workers crossing the Alert Level boundary must now carry: Workers must get tested or be examined in the 7 days before they cross the Alert Level boundary. Workers also must still carry evidence of their reason to cross the Alert Level boundary, for example the Business Travel Document, work order or employer letter. There are police check points to stop unnecessary travel. There is no cost for workers who get a test for this purpose. Testing is available at community testing sites around Auckland or at GPs, and saliva testing is an option. Workers do not need to stay home or stay away from work while they wait for their test result. Find testing locations in your area | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Find out more about the testing options | health.govt.nz (external link) A text message that confirms completion of a test will be sent to the worker. This will be automatically generated at the location where the test was taken, and can be shown as evidence. Paper confirmation will also be available from testing centres that do not use the automated system, for example GP practices. This can also be shown as evidence of a test. If the worker has had an examination instead of a test, they must have an electronic or paper copy of the medical certificate. If you want to cross the boundary for personal reasons, you will need to check if your reason for travelling is permitted. Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary The information on this page is about permitted business travel across an Alert Level boundary. Find information about permitted movement within your Alert Level area: Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Last updated: 12 November 2021 at 11:48 am Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. This page is about travel inside an Alert Level 3 area. If you want information about travelling across an Alert Level boundary, see: You can travel within an Alert Level 3 area for permitted reasons. If you are leaving home for a permitted reason, you do not need to apply for permission. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home, for example proof of address for both households if you are maintaining a shared childcare arrangement. You may be asked to show evidence of your reason for travel — if you cannot show it, you may be prevented from travelling by the travel operator or other authority. You should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice if you: If you test positive for COVID-19 you must stay isolated and follow the advice from health officials. Auckland and parts of Waikato are separate Alert Level 3 areas. They each have an Alert Level boundary around them. This means that if you wish to travel from Auckland into a part of Waikato at Alert Level 3 (or the other direction), your travel across the boundary must be permitted. 15 November 2021: Parts of Waikato will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 16 November 2021. This means there will not be an Alert Level boundary around parts of Waikato. Find information about the permitted reasons to travel across the boundary between Alert Level areas: The purpose of Alert Levels 3 and 4 is to limit the movement of people to only that which is absolutely necessary. This helps to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Please carefully review the list of permitted movements. You do not need to apply for an exemption if your reason to travel is for one of the permitted reasons. If your reason for personal travel is not already permitted, the Director-General of Health may grant individual exemptions to the Alert Level 3 or 4 restrictions. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. To apply for an exemption for personal travel within an Alert Level region please visit the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an individual exemption (external link) The information on this page is about permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area. Find out about travel permissions when crossing an Alert Level boundary: Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 4:14 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you are leaving home for one of the permitted reasons, you do not require any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home. You may be asked to show evidence of your reason for travel — if you cannot provide it, you may be prevented from travelling by the operator or other authority. Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 — Ministry of Transport (external link) If you have symptoms of COVID-19, have been in close contact with someone who tests positive for COVID-19 or test positive for COVID-19, you should not leave home — even if it is permitted — and must self-isolate, and call Healthline for advice and get tested. The purpose of Alert Levels 3 and 4 is to limit the movement of people to only that which is absolutely necessary. This helps to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Please carefully review the list of permitted movements. You do not need to apply for an exemption if your reason to travel is for one of the permitted reasons. If your reason for personal travel is not already permitted, the Director-General of Health may grant individual exemptions to the Alert Level 3 or 4 restrictions. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. To apply for an exemption for personal travel within an Alert Level region please visit the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an individual exemption (external link)  The information on this page is about permitted movement within an Alert Level 4 area. Find out about travel permissions when crossing an Alert Level boundary: Last updated: 16 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Parts of Waikato will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 16 November 2021. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2, and the rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary is strictly limited to minimise the spread of the virus. You can only travel across an Alert Level boundary for permitted reasons. There are 2 separate Alert Level boundaries — Auckland and parts of Waikato. If your reason to travel is permitted you can travel from an Alert Level 2 area into an Alert Level 3 area (and the other direction), or from one Alert Level 3 area to another. If your reason is not permitted, you cannot cross an Alert Level boundary. You need to carry evidence with you. You may also need evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before your travel, or evidence of a COVID-19 test taken no more than 7 days before your travel. Check the list of permitted travel. It will tell you if and when you need to get tested, and what evidence you need. Check if your travel is permitted If you do not live on Waiheke Island or Great Barrier (Aotea) Island, you cannot travel to those locations at Alert Level 3 except for permitted controlled gatherings or other travel permitted under Alert Level 3 rules, such as deliveries or relocation of someone’s permanent home. This means people in Auckland cannot travel to Waiheke or Great Barrier islands for uncontrolled gatherings, recreation or customary purposes at Alert Level 3. Depending on the reason for your travel, you may need to get a test before crossing the boundary. Most people aged 12 and over need to get a test before crossing the boundary from Auckland, whether by land or air. You do not need to get tested when crossing the boundary one-way into Auckland, or if you travel from an Alert Level 2 area, through an Alert Level 3 area and into another Alert Level 2 area. There is an exception for people who travel into Auckland for a medical appointment (including vaccinations), and then leave to return home. They do not need a test when leaving Auckland. The evidence you need to carry depends on the reason for your travel. Some people do not need to be tested. Please note that you cannot get a saliva test for personal travel across the boundary. Check the list of permitted travel. Depending on your reason for travel, it will tell you if and when you need to get tested and what evidence you need to carry. Check if your travel is permitted, and whether you need a COVID-19 test Download a table that summarises the testing requirements for personal travel out of the Alert Level 3 area. Testing requirements when leaving the Alert Level 3 area for permitted personal travel [PDF, 127 KB] Check if your reason for travel is permitted: Check if your travel is permitted If your personal travel across the boundary is permitted, you are already allowed to cross the boundary. Do not apply for an exemption to travel, because you do not need one. You just need to make sure you have acceptable evidence to travel. If you are making a return trip, you will also need to carry evidence of where you live. Whether you are driving or flying across the boundary, you will be asked to show you have evidence to travel. At the airport and the road checkpoint, have your evidence ready as officials may ask to see it at any time. Find examples of acceptable evidence in the list of permitted travel. You must also have a form of photo ID. If you are travelling to an area at a lower Alert Level, make sure you follow safety precautions if you stop, such as: Remember to keep a record of where you have stopped, using the NZ COVID Tracer app or a physical record. If you have visited a location of interest or have COVID-19 symptoms, you should not travel. Instead, stay home and isolate from others, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting a test. You must check if your personal travel across the boundary is permitted. If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you need to apply for an exemption. Before applying for an exemption, you must be sure that: However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. Apply for an individual exemption for personal travel (external link) If the Government announces a change to a higher Alert Level for your area, you cannot move to a second home to avoid the restrictions. You can only relocate your principal home or place of residence across an Alert Level boundary if you are: If you want to cross the boundary for business or work reasons, you or your employer need to check if your reason for travelling is permitted. Business travel across an Alert Level boundary The information on this page is about permitted personal travel across an Alert Level boundary. Find information about permitted movement within your Alert Level area:  Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 4:18 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Even though parts of Waikato are at Alert Level 3 Step 2, there is still a boundary around this area. This means any travel across this boundary must be permitted. 15 November 2021: Parts of Waikato will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 16 November 2021. The permitted reasons for personal travel across the Alert Level boundary are listed on this page. Unless it says otherwise, you can travel across the boundary in either direction. If your reason for travel is listed on this page then you are already allowed to cross the boundary — you do not need to apply for an exemption. You just need to check whether you need a COVID-19 test, and what evidence you need to carry. What to do if your travel is permitted If your travel is not permitted — but you believe you need to cross the boundary — then you can apply for an exemption. How to apply for a personal travel exemption    If you are looking for information about caring for children, check: Looking after others        You can travel across the Alert Level boundary for work if that travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Permitted business travel across the Alert Level boundary Permitted travel within an Alert Level 3 area Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 4:20 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. You may be interested in Most travellers are required to have a negative pre-departure test result and approved documentation to enter New Zealand. All travellers from Australia are now required to get a pre-departure test. If you have received a COVID-19 vaccination, you will still need to take a test. You are responsible for checking your chosen testing provider can provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government.  Tests from free community testing stations may not be acceptable for travel clearance, so check before your test. You need to have both your COVID-19 test sample taken and your result returned within 72 hours of the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. The Government has been monitoring overseas developments and is concerned about high rates of infection and new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. Pre-departure tests reduce the risk of infected travellers on international flights infecting other travellers. Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. The Director-General of Health has confirmed the following types of test are acceptable for all countries — except Australia and very high risk countries: Travellers from Australia are required to get PCR or RT-PCR pre-departure tests. Travellers from very high risk countries — Brazil, India, Indonesia, Pakistan and Papua New Guinea — must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test from an accredited laboratory. Travellers from Fiji, which is a very high risk country, do not need pre-departure tests. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. You are responsible for the costs associated with your test.    You can get tested at a range of places. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Make sure you check your chosen testing provider will provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. You are responsible for meeting any costs associated with your test. All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. You must make sure that the testing provider you choose can provide your test results with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Free community testing stations often do not provide all the information required for travel clearance, so check before having your pre-departure test. If your pre-departure documentation does not contain the required information, or is not in the required format, you may be prevented from boarding your plane. The New Zealand Government requires that all pre-departure tests contain the following information for travel clearance: Get information about pre-departure testing in other languages and alternate formats. Last updated: 2 September 2021 Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Find the latest information about travelling between Australia and New Zealand. You can travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. From 8 November, you can travel from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out about travelling quarantine-free between New Zealand and the Cook Islands. You may be interested in New Zealand Cook Islands Paused From New Zealand to Cook Islands: Paused Cook Islands New Zealand Continues From Cook Islands to New Zealand: Continues There are no locations of interest in the Cook Islands. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand is paused. The Cook Islands Government has indicated that travel will resume from 14 January 2022. Please check Cook Islands COVID-19 Response for updates. Cook Islands COVID-19 Response | covid19.gov.ck All travellers should follow local Cook Islands health guidelines . We also strongly encourage all travellers in the Cook Islands to register on the www.safetravel.govt.nz and monitor this website for further updates. Last updated: 28 October 2021 at 1:14 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Cook Islands Government has announced that its borders will reopen, allowing travel from New Zealand to resume from 14 January 2022. You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Travellers must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. You can travel to the outer islands after you arrive in Rarotonga. You do not need to self-isolate in Rarotonga before you continue your journey to the outer islands. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only.  The Cook Islands border will reopen on 13 January 2022. To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight after then, you must meet the following criteria: Anyone can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for a stay of up to 31 days. The passport you hold does not matter. You must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. New Zealand and Australian passport holders need at least 7 days remaining on their passports from the date they leave the Cook Islands. All other passport holders need at least 6 months remaining. It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Cook Islands Ministry of Health travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart from New Zealand. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete our own Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you fly back to New Zealand. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there.  Wear a face covering on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You will notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. While you are in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response | gov.ck (external link) If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. Make sure you participate in the Cook Islands system to track people’s movements. Doing your part means you are part of the national effort to keep the Cook Islands COVID-19 free. The Cook Islands uses a system that's a little different to New Zealand’s: When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at some locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Scan your QR Card at all locations with a ‘CookSafe Tag In Here’ sign. To scan in, hold your card in front of the scanning area of the device. The screen will appear green when you have successfully scanned in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card | cookislands.travel (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you are in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been and who you have seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. The CookSafe+ app does not remove the need to scan in with your CookSafe QR Card. Remember to take your card with you everywhere you go. Any Bluetooth codes (or 'keys') that are sent or collected from your phone using 1 app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you are in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. More about CookSafe+ app | health.gov.ck (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system | covid19.gov.ck (external link) Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in the Cook Islands for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Your airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Make sure you keep in contact with your employer if your return is delayed. If you are an employer, make sure you know your workers’ rights in this situation. Guidance for workers and employers about quarantine-free travel (external link) You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in the Cook Islands, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. If you are travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Last updated: 9 November 2021 at 3:24 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Cook Islands Government has announced that its borders will reopen, allowing travel from New Zealand to resume from 13 January 2022. New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back on a scheduled flight. You cannot fly if you have been at a location of interest in New Zealand or if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Before you travel: Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. Travel is restricted in Auckland at Alert Level 3. However, you can travel through New Zealand to get home. You must do the following: What to do at Alert Level 3 You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Travellers must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. Wear a face covering on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You will notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in New Zealand, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You will also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You will need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. New Zealand's contact tracing system is a little different to the CookSafe+ app and CookSafe QR code Card system. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, ferries and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. How to travel back to the Cook Islands Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Last updated: 9 November 2021 at 10:36 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can travel one-way from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. You are responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to your country is delayed. Travellers from Samoa, Tonga, Vanuatu and Tokelau can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Check official websites for information about Pacific Island government departure requirements. People who are eligible to enter New Zealand from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu are: List of critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Requirements for Australian citizens and permanent residents | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand’s transit requirements remain the same. Transit passengers | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Recognised Seasonal Employer (RSE) workers are currently required to have at least 1 dose, and will be required to be fully vaccinated from 1 January 2022. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Due to the low risk in these countries, you do not need to provide a negative test before departing for New Zealand. All travellers must complete a travel declaration form, Nau Mai Rā, for New Zealand's Ministry of Health. Complete Nau Mai Rā (external link) When you arrive in New Zealand, you should be aware of any restrictions on domestic travel and activities. Auckland and parts of Waikato are currently at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. What to do at Alert Level 3 Travel is restricted in Auckland at Alert Level 3. However, you can travel through New Zealand to get home. You must do the following: Permitted movement at Alert Level 3 Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. You can find information on this website. About the Alert Level system If you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Download an A6 fact sheet about quarantine-free travel to New Zealand in English and other languages: Last updated: 8 November 2021 at 11:02 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information in Niuean about quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand. Fenoga nakai nofo puipui mai Niue ki Niu Silani | Quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand Auckland and parts of Waikato are currently at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. What to do at Alert Level 3 Travel is restricted in Auckland at Alert Level 3. However, you can travel through New Zealand to get home. You must do the following: Permitted movement at Alert Level 3 Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. If you are travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) If you are in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine free, you must meet the following conditions: You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face covering at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility for 14 days. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. If you’re travelling to New Zealand quarantine free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. You can find information on this website. About the Alert Level system If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu Last updated: 8 November 2021 at 9:42 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand while quarantine-free travel is suspended. On 17 September 2021, the Government suspended quarantine-free travel with Australia for a further 8 weeks. This is due to the current Delta outbreaks. Uncontrolled community transmission is still occurring in Australia, with case numbers continuing to steadily increase in some states and territories. In New Zealand, we are getting on top of an outbreak in Auckland. The Government will review this decision in mid-to-late November 2021, to give more time for our vaccination rates to climb higher. The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to almost all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. If you want to travel from Australia, you must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Check now to see if you can travel. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You need to: Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Costs for MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccinations required for non-New Zealand citizens (external link) If you want to travel to New Zealand, you need to book your MIQ voucher when they are available. This applies to travellers from all states and territories in Australia. MIQ has introduced a virtual lobby for all room releases. Visit the MIQ website to find out how to participate in the virtual lobby booking system. Get your voucher through the virtual lobby (external link) You can travel quarantine-free from anywhere in New Zealand to Australia. This began on 1 November 2021. To travel to Australia, you must: Note that individual states or territories may not accept quarantine-free travellers from New Zealand. They may also have their own rules or guidance for travelling there. Check with the state government website for what you need to do. Information for travellers by state or territory | australia.gov.au (external link) New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link)  If you are in Australia and have not been able to return home, we encourage you to: Register to get the latest travel advice for Australia | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Sign up for email notifications for travel with Australia (external link) If you need information about returning home, you can call the contact centre for advice: You can call between 8am to 10pm (NZT), 7 days a week. It is your responsibility to manage your costs for travel disruption. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Consular staff in New Zealand and at our consular offices in Australia cannot arrange a space in MIQ or a flight to New Zealand for you. Get emergency consular help by calling: Emergency consular help is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Last updated: 1 November 2021 at 1:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders and develop new ways for people to travel to and from Aotearoa New Zealand. This is a new framework for travel that will involve gradually shifting our border settings from where New Zealand is now, with travel based on country-to-country arrangements, to a risk-based travel approach based on individual travellers. It will take into account a number of factors, including vaccine status. Read more about the next steps [PDF, 122 KB] The Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World forum brought together experts to discuss the next steps in our reconnection strategy. The forum featured a presentation from Sir David Skegg, a panel discussion with experts and a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern. The event was held on Thursday 12 August 2021. Watch the Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World forum Self-isolation is part of the Government’s plan for re-opening borders and allowing more people to visit and return home to New Zealand without the requirement to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). A self-isolation pilot over October and December 2021 will test some of the systems and processes that would be needed to roll out self-isolation more widely. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) will administer the pilot. The traveller health declaration system will collect information from travellers arriving in New Zealand. In future, New Zealand will assess the health risk of each traveller depending on their vaccination status, test results and where they have travelled. This information will be used to help facilitate the traveller on arrival to New Zealand, for example whether they need to go into a MIQ facility, or be eligible for other isolation options and testing requirements. In order to confirm people’s vaccination status, this system will be able to validate the vaccination certificate and show it is authentic and can be trusted. The complexity of digital and operational systems that the traveller health declaration system needs means it will be developed in stages with security and simplicity for users being key to the solution. The first version will be available in Quarter1 2022. The New Zealand Customs Service will admin ister the project. Vaccination status and verification will be an important part of supporting New Zealanders to travel internationally. The Ministry of Health is currently piloting a web application called My COVID Record so people can access their vaccination and test records using the new My Health Account. Pending a successful pilot, this service is due to made available to the public in mid-October. My Covid Record will be a self-service web application for consumers to generate their COVID-19 vaccination certificate that can be verified by international jurisdictions. Work is underway on developing digital certificates that can be stored on a person’s phone. These are expected to be available later this year. Those who cannot access digital devices will have an assisted phone line support option. Learn more about proof of vaccination for travel (external link) Last updated: 2 November 2021 at 10:10 am Updates and resources Contact and support
Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, COVID-19 symptoms and testing, contact tracing, and advice for people at risk. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The forum started with a presentation from Sir David Skegg, with an overview of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group’s advice on reconnecting New Zealand. It was followed by a discussion MC’d by the Prime Minister’s Chief Science Advisor, Dame Juliet Gerrard. The experts bring a range of backgrounds and perspectives to a discussion about vaccination, safe borders, safe travel and public health habits. The event also featured a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and opening remarks from Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health. Last updated: 29 September 2021 at 1:50 pm Updates and resources Contact and support