We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. How we safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping COVID-19 out. How to create a QR code poster for visitors using NZ COVID Tracer. As we recover from the effects of COVID-19, financial pressures are a reality. Help is available. Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 when there are cases of community transmission. Updated advice on the use of face masks If you have cold or flu symptoms, you should stay home and call your doctor or Healthline. Wash your hands with soap. Cough or sneeze into your elbow. Clean surfaces. If COVID-19 reappears, help our health services reach people quickly to stop any further spread. The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. Help your community stay resilient and connected. Back local businesses by buying locally made products from NZ-owned companies. Explore the amazing places that are just around the corner...
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Our website privacy statement, terms of use, contact details if you would like advice or have feedback, and how to access archives of our website. How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Access covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you don't have any data on your device, you can use our website. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. Who to contact if you want advice, have questions, or want to give us feedback on the website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Call 111 immediately in an emergency. For advice you can contact the free government helplines.  If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 0800 358 5453 . For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 or email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz . You can send feedback about covid19.govt.nz by emailing or sending a letter to us. Please include a link to the webpages that you have feedback about. Email: covid19web@dpmc.govt.nz Postal address: COVID-19 website COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand You can get in touch with the COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group by emailing or sending a letter to us. Email: covid19response@dpmc.govt.nz Postal address: COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand Last modified: 31 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There’s no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this site. The information Google Analytics collects includes: The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar to collect your feedback and information about how you use this site, for example clicks, taps and scrolling. Hotjar privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you don't have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — www.covid19.govt.nz. We’ve removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you'll have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. More about how you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) Last modified: 10 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to get your QR code poster, how to operate safely, help finding new employees, and business resources and financial help. Help to find a job, what industries need people, and career advice. Opportunities are available to study, train or begin an apprenticeship. Help is available if you're experiencing financial distress including help for businesses and foreign nationals in NZ.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. How to get your QR code poster, how to operate safely, help finding new employees, and business resources and financial help. Help your customers keep track of where they’ve been by getting an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. How to operate safely including contact tracing, employment guidance and other resources and guidance. Help is available to connect employers with people looking for work. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Keeping track of where we’ve been is 1 way we can be prepared. To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. At Alert Level 1, venues or premises that have visitors and customers no longer need to record or hold records of people’s movement on their premises. But, businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. The Ministry of Health has created a tracing app called NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where someone has scanned so they know where they have been. You can create QR code posters for your premises using the self-service form on this website. Create your QR code poster (external link) If you need help generating your QR code posters or have questions or feedback about NZ COVID Tracer, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 or email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz . How to download NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you need help hiring new employees, Work and Income can help. You can advertise jobs for free and easily access work-ready people who are wanting to work. Whether you’re a small, medium or large business, or looking to recruit locally or nationally, Work and Income can connect you with candidates who have skills to suit all kinds of jobs. List your job vacancies for free or talk to them about tailoring a recruitment plan to meet the needs of your business. Advertise your job vacancies for free (external link) Information about Work and Income’s recruitment services (external link) Many initiatives are underway to connect employers in a range of in-demand industries with people looking for work. More information on in-demand industries The Mana in Mahi programme provides young people with on-the-job training so they get paid while working towards an industry qualification. Businesses can receive funding and support to recruit, train and retain employees. To take part in the Mana in Mahi programme, your business will need to: To apply, contact Work and Income on 0800 778 008 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) He Poutama Rangatahi supports rangatahi aged 15 to 24 to connect with employers and get into long-term employment. To be eligible, your business will need to do the following: Find out more about He Poutama Rangatahi on the Provincial Growth Fund website (external link) The Cadetships programme supports employers to develop, mentor, train and grow full-time permanent Māori staff to take on more senior roles within an organisation. Your business could receive up to $10,000 to help develop a cadet for at least 6 months in a permanent role. To apply, your business will need to meet 1 of these requirements: Find out more about the Cadetships programme on the Te Puni Kokiri website (external link)  Last modified: 8 June 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 1, businesses are able to operate with no restrictions in place, but it is important to maintain hygiene practices. If workers are sick or have symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home. More information about when to stay home At Alert Level 1, venues or premises that have visitors and customers should help customers keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your QR code poster Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) A free helpline service has been launched for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If your question cannot be answered immediately you will be supported through the process to get assistance from the Regional Business Partner network. Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Help is available if you're experiencing financial distress including help for businesses and foreign nationals in NZ. Find out what financial support you could access. Because of COVID-19 financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Find out what financial support you could access.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool The Wage Subsidy Scheme helped employers recover from the effects of COVID-19. It helped employers to keep their staff employed and ensured an income for affected employees for up to 12 weeks. You can no longer apply for the Wage Subsidy Scheme. You may be able to get the Wage Subsidy Extension if you are still impacted by COVID-19. A Wage Subsidy Extension payment is available to support employers, including sole traders, who are still significantly impacted by COVID-19 after the Wage Subsidy ends. It supports employers to continue to pay your employees. The Wage Subsidy Extension will be available to employers for 8 weeks, between 10 June 2020 and 1 September 2020, so you can keep paying your employees. It will be paid to you as a lump sum at the same weekly rate as the Wage Subsidy. Employers can apply for the Wage Subsidy Extension once you have finished paying your employees the original 12 week Wage Subsidy. To be eligible, your business must have had a revenue loss of at least 40% for a continuous 30 day period. This period needs to be in the 40 days before you apply, but no earlier than 10 May 2020, and must be compared to the closest period last year. COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme provides a payment to businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19 public health guidance. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Small and medium-sized businesses may be eligible for Business Finance Guarantee scheme. The scheme helps businesses access credit to support operating cashflow disrupted by COVID-19. Participating banks can provide to eligible businesses: The scheme supports banks to take on lending by the Government taking on the default risk of up to 80% of the loan. Lending decisions are made by banks. Borrowers must still pay the loan back — with interest — as they would normally. Information about the Business Finance Guarantee scheme from the Treasury (external link) Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) Inland Revenue will provide interest-free loans for a year to small businesses as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme will provide assistance of up to $100,000 to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within a year. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Company directors facing significant liquidity problems can also seek a safe harbour from sections 135 and 136 of the Companies Act 1993. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) Support will be available to employers of first and second year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: Funding will be available from August 2020 until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost Initiative (external link) Last modified: 31 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz . Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz . Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) The Wage Subsidy Scheme helped employees working for businesses suffering from the effects of COVID-19. It helped keep people employed and ensured an income for affected employees for up to 12 weeks. Your employer can no longer apply for the Wage Subsidy Scheme. You may be able to get the Wage Subsidy Extension if you are still impacted by COVID-19. A Wage Subsidy Extension payment is available to support workers, including sole traders, who are still significantly impacted by COVID-19 after the Wage Subsidy ends. It supports employers to continue to pay their employees. The Wage Subsidy Extension will be available for 8 weeks, between 10 June 2020 and 1 September 2020. It will be paid at the same weekly rate as the Wage Subsidy. Employers can apply for the Wage Subsidy Extension once they have finished paying their employees the original 12 week Wage Subsidy. To be eligible, your business must have had a revenue loss of at least 40% for a continuous 30 day period. This period needs to be in the 40 days before you apply, but no earlier than 10 May 2020, and must be compared with the closest period last year. COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme provides a payment to businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19 public health guidance. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) The COVID-19 Income Relief Payment is another option for people who have recently lost their jobs. You may be eligible if you lost your job (including self-employment) from 1 March 2020 to 30 October 2020, due to the impacts of COVID-19. You can get up to 12 weeks of payments to help with living costs and give you time to look for other work. It offers: More information and how to apply (external link) If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There is currently a freeze on rent increases. This means that landlords can’t increase rent for their rental properties until after 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants at the Tenancy Services website (external link) New Zealand’s retail banks are offering to defer repayments for all residential mortgages for up to 6 months for customers financially affected by COVID-19. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you will not need to make principal and interest payments on your loan for up to 6 months. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. It's important to know that interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess the suitability for each customer who is asking for a deferral. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) Last modified: 16 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Temporary assistance is available to eligible people to help meet basic needs, such as food and accommodation. Assistance will be paid directly to third parties, such as landlords or power companies, and no cash payments will be made. All classes of temporary visa holders are eligible. These include: Find out if you are eligible and begin your application by using the COVID-19 financial support tool. COVID-19 financial support tool Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Help to find a job, what industries need people, and career advice. Advice on how to search for jobs and how to advertise jobs if you’re an employer. Information on the jobs available in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Practical advice to help you look for a new job or retrain.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Careers NZ has practical, useful advice if your job has been impacted by COVID-19. Careers NZ can help with: Careers NZ has tools and resources to help kick-start your career or to help you consider study or retraining options if you have been impacted by COVID-19. Know Your CV — Careers NZ (external link) You can find detailed information about jobs you may be interested in, including what the job involves, salary expectations, job opportunities and length of training required. Search for jobs you may be interested in (external link) Careers New Zealand also has a list of job vacancy and recruitment websites that have roles across a range of industries, so you can find your next challenge. List of job vacancy and recruitment website (external link) Call 0800 601 301 to talk to someone from 8:30am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. They can help you with: You can also talk to someone online. Chat online about your career options (external link) Last modified: 8 June 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Many people's circumstances have changed due to COVID-19. If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, now is a good time to look for a new challenge. Many industries need people to keep New Zealand moving. If you are looking for work, you can create a job finder profile on the Keep New Zealand Working website. This site can connect you to businesses that need work-ready people to help support New Zealand through COVID-19. Create a job finder profile (external link) You can search from a range of available jobs across the country from the Keep New Zealand Working website. Search job vacancies (external link) If you need help hiring additional staff, you can advertise jobs for free to access work-ready people easily. Advertise jobs for free (external link) There are many jobs available at the moment in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Information about in-demand industries Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are many roles involved in producing New Zealand’s food and fibre, which are essential to helping New Zealand through the recovery. These include: There are many opportunities to join the sector. In the next 5 years we need 50,000 people with a diverse range of interests, experiences and backgrounds. Opportunities range from seasonal jobs through to long-term careers. GrowingNZ can help with career advice in the sector. It also lists available roles across New Zealand. GrowingNZ career advice (external link) New Zealand is a large provider of fruit and vegetables to the world. This is what the horticulture sector supplies. New Zealand horticulture leads the way in healthy, sustainable food production — developing technology, growing and harvesting food, designing new products and selling them to the world. The GoHort website can help you work out if a career in horticulture is right for you. It has information about careers in the science, business and technology sectors as well as working on an orchard. The GoHort JobBoard showcases the career opportunities currently available in the horticultural sector. You can list a job if you are an employer and find a job if you are looking for a new role. GoHort JobBoard (external link) Right now the dairy sector needs motivated and passionate people to work on dairy farms. There are many roles and career pathways with self-employed options available. Many of your existing skills may be transferable to a dairy farming role. Dairy sector opportunities include working: You can find out which dairy sector careers, including on-farm roles, would best suit your skills and experience on the Go Dairy website. Go Dairy (external link) Free training is available for people who have lost their jobs due to COVID-19. The 3 week course includes 1 week online and 2 practical weeks. Free Farm Ready Training (external link) Forestry roles involve much more than growing and harvesting plantation forests. Careers include: There are opportunities to suit your needs, from long-term positions to seasonal work. Forestry Careers NZ has a range of information on the roles available in the industry, career expectations, and skills and qualifications needed. Forestry Careers NZ (external link) Last modified: 30 June 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Fees-free vocational education and training is available through the Targeted Training and Apprenticeships Fund. There is no need to apply as fees are paid directly to providers by the Tertiary Education Commission. Funding is available for vocational programmes in targeted industries and for apprenticeships in all industries. Starting from 1 July, the vocational programmes initially funded are in the following areas: Find the list of supported training on the Tertiary Education Commission website (external link) Fees will be covered from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2022. If you started a course earlier in the year, you may be eligible for a partial refund if your course continues past 1 July 2020. The Mana in Mahi programme can kick start your career, giving you on-the-job training so you get paid while working towards an industry qualification. You can also receive support getting the things you need to get started like clothes and tools. To apply, you can contact Work and Income on 0800 779 009 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) The Hardship Fund is available for students facing financial difficulty, including as a result of COVID-19. You can receive grants to cover certain costs, and loans if you are waiting on money from things like scholarship payments, research grants, international bank transfers, etc. The Hardship Fund can help with a range of issues, including: To apply, contact your tertiary education provider. Find out more about the Hardship Fund on the Tertiary Education Commission’s website (external link) Last modified: 7 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. How to improve community resilience, connect communities, and how to prepare for an emergency as a community. A range of funding is available to support communities impacted by COVID-19. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It’s natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it’s important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) When we get to know our neighbours we’re more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A range of funding is available to support communities impacted by COVID-19. Ethnic community groups can apply for funding to support their communities. How to get financial support if you're a sports or recreational club.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Funding is available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay socially connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: Apply for funding by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link) Once you apply, an internal panel looks at your application and the Office of Ethnic Communities makes the final decision. Funding for more than 1 year is available if your group: Groups with legal status, such as trusts and incorporated societies, can apply for over $10,000. Groups without legal status can apply for up to $10,000. Advice is available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) Funding is available from the Ministry for Pacific Peoples to support Pacific communities and groups who are responding and recovering from the impacts of COVID-19. There are 3 categories of funding available Grants of up to $5,000 is available for groups that have a new idea that they want to test and pilot. Grants of up $10,000 are available to improve initiatives that have already had a positive impact in the community. Grants of up to $50,000 are available for initiatives that have already had a positive impact in the community, and are ready to expand to other regions. Apply for funding by filling in an application form from the Ministry for Pacific Peoples. Community COVID-19 Fund for Pacific communities (external link) Last modified: 10 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. To help clubs and recreational organisations get back up and running, Sport NZ has launched a Community Resilience Fund for Regional Sports Trusts to access. The fund is available to help regional and local sports organisations remain financially viable following disruption caused by COVID-19. This applies if: A club can apply for $1,000 for fixed costs incurred from 1 April to 30 June 2020 and regional recreational and sports organisations can apply for up to $40,000. Apply via your local Regional Sports Trust. Each trust has a different application process for contestable funds. More information about the Sports NZ Community Resilience Fund (external link) Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. Buying local is a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Help local tourism businesses by getting out and seeing New Zealand.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You’ll be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. The Government has a range of actions including the Alert System, border restrictions and testing. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Find the latest case data and information on how COVID-19 spreads, symptoms, diagnosis and contact tracing. This group was established to coordinate the response to COVID-19 across government.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group was established as a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC) on 1 July 2020. It is mandated to coordinate, and where necessary lead, the All-of-Government response to the ongoing pandemic. The response to COVID-19 has required a significant effort from across government and will continue to require this coordinated approach for many months to come. Mission, structure and leadership, and contact details of the All-of-Government Response Group (external link) Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Alert System was introduced by the government in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that must be followed. The system helps us to stop the spread of COVID-19, with different measures at each Alert Level. New Zealand is currently at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. This means there are no restrictions to everyday life, but there are controls at the border. Alert System overview Find out about Alert Level 1 Border entry measures are in place to minimise the risk of importing COVID-19 cases. The border is closed, except for New Zealand citizens and residents, and a small number of limited exceptions — such as critical workers. Exemptions are managed by Immigration New Zealand (external link) . Border closures and exceptions (external link) Anyone returning to New Zealand from overseas must complete 14 days in managed-isolation before returning to the community. Arriving back in New Zealand The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1, and there are no restrictions in place for workplaces, schools, domestic travel or events. Keeping COVID-19 out means we need to identify any cases if they emerge. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Testing is prioritised for people who are most likely to have COVID-19. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. Other people with COVID-19 symptoms may also be tested. This is to help ensure that we don’t have community transmission in New Zealand. Our approach to testing Several visa categories were automatically extended to 25 September 2020 due to the impact of COVID-19 and challenge for people returning home. Work, student, visitor, limited or interim visas that expired between 2 April and 9 July 2020 were automatically extended if the person was in New Zealand on 2 April. Confirmation of these extensions and what it means have been emailed to visa holders. Immigration changes due to COVID-19 (external link) All driver licences, WoFs, CoFs and some vehicle certifications that expired on or after 1 January 2020 are valid for up to 6 months from 10 April 2020. This recognises that during Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3, through no fault of their own, many New Zealanders were unable to keep these documents up to date. This extension allows vehicle users extra time to allow them to get up to date. All vehicle inspection sites are now open and to ensure your vehicle remains safe to use, you should renew your WoF or CoF as soon as possible. NCEA exams were delayed to provide students more time to prepare for end of year assessments. External NCEA examinations and New Zealand Scholarship examinations have moved from 6 November to 16 November, allowing another week for teaching, learning and internal assessment in Term 4. The submission date for subjects which require students to submit a portfolio, such as Design and Visual Communication, has moved from from 28 October to 12 November 2020, giving students more time to prepare. The requirement for NZQA verification of Level 1 and 2 Visual Arts portfolios has been waived, allowing students more time to complete their portfolios and teachers more time for marking. Further information from the Ministry of Education (external link) If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, there are many industries that need people to keep New Zealand moving. Keep NZ working Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System lists the measures to be taken against COVID-19 at each level. We are still at Alert Level 1 and the virus is uncontained outside New Zealand. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. If you’re concerned that someone is not complying with managed isolation requirements, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand moved to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. At Alert Level 1, everyone can return to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Remember we are still at Alert Level 1 and the virus is uncontained outside New Zealand. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Information on international travel Staying at home if you’re sick is still the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. Information about staying home if you’re sick It’s still important that we use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster If you are experiencing financial distress, see our financial support page for useful information. Financial support information Last modified: 6 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand moved to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. Information on life at Alert Level 1 Our Alert System guidance does not yet include updated advice on wearing masks. The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 5 June 2020 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 5 June 2020 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At all levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of CDEM. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it is declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: Likely that disease is not contained. High risk the disease is not contained. The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. The disease is contained in New Zealand. Last modified: 7 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Managed isolation and quarantine is an important part in ensuring we keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach online (external link)  Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Find the latest case data and information on how COVID-19 spreads, symptoms, diagnosis and contact tracing. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, how fast they appear and what to do if you have any symptoms. If you have cold or flu symptoms, you should call your doctor, iwi health provider or Healthline. They will let you know if you should have a COVID-19 test. The Ministry of Health and district health boards will continue to trace people who may have been in contact with anyone who has COVID-19. Get data on cases and testing of COVID-19 in NZ.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have been in contact with them to see if they have also been infected. This process is called contact tracing. There are 2 types of contacts: Health services will give advice to both of these types of contacts on what they need to do. The Ministry of Health has more information about contact tracing, including: Detailed description of how contact tracing works (external link) You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Last modified: 1 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Symptoms include: These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. If you have cold or flu symptoms, you should stay home and call: A health professional will advise whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting if you have any symptoms. COVID-19 is contained in New Zealand and there is no community transmission. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Information about testing for COVID-19 Like the flu, COVID-19 is spread by droplets from person to person. Good hygiene can prevent its spread. People can catch the virus through their eyes, nose or mouth. The scientific evidence proves that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. People may get infected by the virus if they touch those surfaces or objects, and then touch their mouth, nose or eyes. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, at any time. Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Testing continues to help us eliminate COVID-19 in New Zealand. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. It will help us ensure we don’t have community transmission, and help keep your friends, family and whānau safe. Testing helps us: The highest priority for testing is to test people who are symptomatic and have: Anyone presenting to health services with symptoms consistent with COVID-19 should be offered testing to help ensure that we don’t have community transmission in New Zealand. However, we particularly encourage you to get tested if you have symptoms and you are: Getting tested early helps protect those around you. If you have cold or flu symptoms, please call: A health professional will let you know the next steps and whether you should get a test. A COVID-19 test is free of charge. However, you may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. If you need to be tested for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than 1 way to take a sample. The most common method is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. That sample goes to a lab to be analysed. The lab results may take some time. When you are tested you will be told when and how to expect your results. Whether you test positive or negative, you will be notified about your results. Most people do not need to self-isolate while waiting for a test result — your medical professional will advise you on this. You will only be asked to self-isolate if you: If you are tested you should follow the advice you’re given about what to do next. If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. People testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or masks — this is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they are testing. Our health system will continue to support anyone who tests positive for COVID-19. If you are diagnosed with COVID-19, medical professionals will advise you on what you need to do. For most people, this will mean self-isolating at home, with health staff contacting you daily to check on your health and wellbeing. They will provide any support or advice you may need. Self-isolation Health agencies will identify and contact trace anyone that you have come into close contact with. Contact tracing The health team responsible for your daily health checks will let you know when you are no longer at risk of infecting others with COVID-19. They will assess you as recovered if you meet all the following criteria: If you were hospitalised, it must be at least 10 days after you are discharged from the hospital and you must be clear of all symptoms for 72 hours. If you have had COVID-19 but have not had any symptoms, you will be assessed as recovered when it has been 10 days since you had a positive test. The Ministry of Health is recording testing data by region and by ethnicity within regions. This helps us ensure we have an accurate picture of any future spread of COVID-19 and can respond in the best way. It also helps to keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 data Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice on when to get medical advice, flu vaccinations, health services and getting medical care if your visa has expired. The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Simple but effective. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Last modified: 8 June 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it’s important that you have the treatments and medications you need. You should not delay seeking help for any health needs. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 0800 358 5453 and organise to get tested. COVID-19 symptoms Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in uniting to recover from the effects of COVID-19. For more information on the 2020 flu campaign, and to see if you’re eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu website (external link) General practices, community health and addiction services are open. Health services trialled new ways of working during Alert Levels and discovered benefits for patients. Many services may continue to be provided by telephone or online for convenience. Talk to your provider about what works best for you both. Hospitals are open for all emergency and outpatient care. Hygiene and infection control practices will remain in place to keep everyone safe. Mental health and addiction in-patient and residential services are open. Allied health providers such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists are also open. People will have had different experiences over the last few months. Whatever you’re feeling — it’s okay. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed following times of difficulty, but there are things you can do to look after your mental wellbeing. Looking after your mental wellbeing It’s important that anyone with health concerns contact Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. You should seek medical advice if you’re unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. Are you or your whānau unwell? The best ways to get support are to: Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. Masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 when there are cases of community transmission. You don't need to wear a mask at Alert Level 1. But you should have some masks at home, in case we ever need to change Alert Levels. Add some masks to your household emergency kit — make sure you have enough for everyone who usually lives in your household. Retail shops have enough masks in stock in New Zealand for everyone. Most people can use non-medical-grade masks. These masks prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others and could help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade masks can be either single-use or reusable. Non-medical-grade masks do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade masks online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. You can make your own masks if you wish, but we recommend you buy your masks from a reputable supplier. At Alert Level 2 and higher, people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 should use medical-grade masks to help prevent infection. Medical masks are also known as surgical masks. These masks protect the wearer from becoming infected, and from spreading diseases to others. Medical masks form a small part of personal protective equipment (PPE). They are required to conform with Standard AS/NZS 1716:2012 ‘Respiratory protective devices’. They are not reusable. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical masks are available for health care workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. Masks will be most useful when COVID-19 is present in the community and people are in close contact with each other, like at work or in social situations. At Alert Level 1, you do not need to wear masks because there is no evidence of community transmission of COVID-19. At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a mask becomes more important. If we move to Alert Level 2, you should wear masks in situations where physical distancing is not possible, like on public transport or in shops. At Alert Level 3, masks may become compulsory when physical distancing is not possible. At Alert Level 4, only people delivering or accessing essential services will be moving around, so mask use may be limited. COVID-19 is spread from close contact with a person who has COVID-19. Wearing a mask helps keep you and others safe. A mask helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Masks are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Masks are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. When you wear a face mask, it's important you use it safely. This advice applies to both bought and handmade masks. Never share face masks with other people. Face masks should not be worn by: When wearing a mask you should: If you touch your face or the front of your mask you should thoroughly wash and dry your hands. The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a mask safely. Last modified: 7 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. Free apps, toolkits and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing. If you feel you’re not coping, it’s important to talk with a health professional.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health has created a tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. How to download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury DHB and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by All Blacks legend and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whanau on the depression.org.nz website. The website includes advice, information and support for: Depression.org.nz (external link) These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practise new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Make a non-emergency report to the police (external link) Last modified: 8 June 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Everyone’s emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Where to go for help Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support Last modified: 16 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. People with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well controlled, and some older people are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. At all Alert Levels, when you leave the house you should maintain physical distancing and good hygiene practices. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) You should work with your GP or specialist if you need help understanding your own level of risk and how best to stay healthy. You should continue to access care for your medical condition. Health services such as your GP and hospitals have measures in place to keep both you and staff safe. Public health advice has informed the decision to move to Alert Level 1. This means the risk of COVID-19 has been managed. There are no restrictions at Alert Level 1, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about doing a risk assessment in your workplace to look at what the risk is for you and how it can be reduced. At all Alert Levels remember to: Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Simple but effective. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus. Staying at home if you’re sick is still the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. Fast and effective contact tracing is 1 way we can all work together to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Washing your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. It will keep the virus off your hands, so you won’t spread it to other people and make them sick too. It’s still important that we stay vigilant with cleaning.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, they should be cleaned first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. Last modified: 8 June 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them getting onto your hands. Put any used tissues in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. If other people touch these surfaces they may get sick. Last modified: 8 June 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If the virus reappears in the community, keeping track of where you've been will help our health services to quickly trace close contacts and break the chain of transmission. If you use NZ COVID Tracer, it's a lot easier for health officials to let you know about any risk of exposure.  Download on the Apple Store (external link) Get on Google Play (external link) We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Keeping track of where we've been is 1 way we can be prepared. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the disease. How the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace people who have been in contact with a case of COVID-19 (external link) Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can, otherwise use whatever method works for you. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. You should keep track of the 3 Ws: You can keep track of your movements by: The Ministry of Health has created a tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. The app helps you to create a digital diary of where you have been. You can: NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) If you have questions or feedback about the app or any problems using it: Information about privacy and COVID-19 (external link) At Alert Level 1 businesses: Get your QR code poster for your business Last modified: 7 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you have cold or flu symptoms you should stay home, and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. These symptoms include: If you have any of these symptoms it doesn’t necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. COVID-19 symptoms Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If you have COVID-19, or if you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you are waiting for COVID-19 test results, you should also self-isolate as a precaution. If you have been told you need to self-isolate, you must do so immediately. If you are in self-isolation, follow these precautions: Last modified: 16 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Don’t touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: The same goes for hand sanitiser, use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially: Always wash your hands: No, you can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. Cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses — as long as you use soap. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. Last modified: 30 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: We can look after our physical health by: If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Government agencies are working together to provide financial support, related to: How to get financial support Last modified: 23 July 2020
Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. New Zealand’s borders are currently closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Foreign nationals travelling in New Zealand should consider returning home as soon as they are able to. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. How to plan your travel to NZ, what will happen when you arrive, and what to expect of managed isolation.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The New Zealand borders are closed for all but critical travel — protecting public health in New Zealand is paramount. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether it is by air or sea. To help stop the spread of COVID-19, people who do arrive in New Zealand are required to undergo either managed isolation or quarantine for at least 14 days. Managed isolation and quarantine You have a legal right to come home if you are: You do not need approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling. Travel to New Zealand There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you must to get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. List of exceptions from Immigration New Zealand (external link) There are also exceptions to some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. Advice on leaving New Zealand The New Zealand Government has entered into transit arrangements with a range of countries to make it easier for each other’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that detail who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. Current transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Managed isolation is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. While our borders are closed, New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have a legal right to come home. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand by completing 14 days in isolation before safely returning home. Advice if you’re going to travel to New Zealand or want to The purpose of managed isolation is to ensure people do not have COVID-19 before they return to our communities. People are tested around day 3 and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave managed isolation. Tens of thousands of people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. New Zealand has managed isolation and quarantine facilities located throughout the country. All facilities are located within hotels. The facilities are closely monitored to make sure that measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. All hotels selected for managed isolation or quarantine need to meet a strict set of criteria. This is to ensure that people staying and working in them are kept safe and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Some of the criteria hotels must meet include: None of the hotels being used for quarantine or managed isolation are currently open to other guests. The Government holds exclusive use of the hotel facilities. List of managed isolation and quarantine facilities and their locations (external link) There are over 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All-of-Government support team. Staff on the ground at our managed isolation facilities have stood at the frontline of New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19, doing essential work to ensure people can complete their stay safely and comfortably. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. Each team has representatives from: The size of each team varies slightly based on facility capacity and the extra support required. For example, there are more health professionals at a quarantine facility than a managed isolation facility. The multi-agency teams are responsible for managing the facilities and providing health and wellbeing support, security and assistance to guests, hotel staff and other government agency personnel. Last modified: 7 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can use international air services to travel home. There may, however, be limited commercial options available. If you’re unable to secure a ticket, please contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. We’re sympathetic to individuals who are in New Zealand and unable to return home at the moment. Your employer-assisted temporary work visa is extended by 6 months if you: This includes employer-assisted temporary work visas that: This extension does not apply to any partner or dependent child who holds a visa based on their relationship with you. Their expiry date will remain the same. Your work, student, visitor, limited or interim visa was extended to 25 September 2020 if: This extension was made under the original Epidemic Management Notice. A confirmation of this was emailed to all visa holders. Certain visas have not been extended. This applies if your visa expires after 9 July and you have: Your current visa expiry remains the same. You need to: This includes partners or dependent children who hold a visa based on the relationship with an employer-assisted work visa. For more information: Immigration New Zealand has increased its visa processing capacity, and has resumed processing temporary entry and residence visa applications. Visa processing will be prioritised for those already in New Zealand. The Government has postponed: This is a temporary measure. Immigration New Zealand will continue to reassess and determine when these programmes can resume. The Government is providing support in finding temporary accommodation for people who are: There’s a cost for temporary accommodation and the Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. How to get temporary accommodation (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand (external link) Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Temporary assistance is available to eligible people to help meet basic needs, such as food and accommodation. Assistance will be paid directly to third parties, such as landlords or power companies, and no cash payments will be made. All classes of temporary visa holders are eligible. These include: Find out if you are eligible and begin your application by using the COVID-19 financial support tool. COVID-19 financial support tool Holders of a Recognised Seasonal Employer (RSE) visa are also eligible. To be eligible your RSE employer must: If you are on an RSE visa, you should talk to your employer about applying for this assistance. Your employer should call the Red Cross on 0800 733 276 (choose option 1). Red Cross Visitor Care Manaaki Manuhiri (external link) Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Before travelling overseas all travellers should consult either: Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. Check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. The New Zealand Government is also urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel, in order to receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) There are many people in New Zealand who wish to return to their home country. More information for foreign nationals in New Zealand Some countries require you to have a negative COVID-19 test before you travel. The New Zealand Government has entered into transit arrangements with a range of countries to make it easier for each other’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that detail who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. Current transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) In line with the Government’s global travel advisory to not travel at this time, New Zealanders should avoid taking an overseas cruise at the time due to COVID-19. The virus can spread quickly on board cruises due to the close contact between passengers. Some cruise ships have been put into quarantine and countries have denied entry to ports, which can have significant consequences for travellers. Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. How to plan your travel to NZ, what will happen when you arrive, and what to expect of managed isolation. How to plan your travel back to NZ including who can travel to NZ, border controls when you arrive and what to bring with you. Advice for when you arrive back in NZ, including what will happen if you arrive by air or sea. What to expect when you arrive at a managed isolation facility, and information about your room, meals, exercise and health checks. Advice on when you will be able to leave either managed isolation or quarantine. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You will need to wear a face mask when you leave the plane. Government officials will explain what will be happening and answer any questions. You will then be screened for COVID-19 symptoms such as a high temperature. If you have symptoms of COVID-19 or you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to a managed isolation facility. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You must continue to wear a face mask until you get to your room at the facility. You will be allocated to a facility on arrival. This will normally be with the other travellers from the flight you arrived on. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: Yo u may be assigned to a facility that is in a different city to the one you arrived in. If this is the case the Government will arrange your transfer. Transport will also be provided back to the airport you arrived at, if you wish. Otherwise, travel home on completion of your isolation will be at your own expense. Our onsite support team will work with you to confirm your travel arrangements. Currently, you are not expected to pay any money towards your accommodation. However, payment for managed isolation is likely to be confirmed sometime in August. Proposed payments for managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Your 14 days of isolation start from the time your vessel arrives in New Zealand’s territorial waters. You will most likely complete your isolation on your vessel. Under some situations you might be transferred to a managed isolation facility. Government officials will provide more information on your arrival. There are exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The purpose of managed isolation is to ensure people do not have COVID-19 before they return to our communities. People are tested around day 3 and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave managed isolation. Tens of thousands of people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. You do not currently have to pay for managed isolation or quarantine. Latest update on the Government's plan to introduce charges for managed isolation You will be met by staff from the quarantine and managed isolation programme at your facility. They will be in regular contact with you and can provide any support you need. You will also get an information pack with more detail about your stay. Welcome pack: managed isolation facility [PDF, 354 KB]  You will be assigned a room for the duration of your stay. This will take into account how many people are with you. Basic toiletries and refreshments will be provided in your room on arrival. This includes things like tea and coffee. Unlimited Wi-Fi access is also available free of charge. Laundry services are available at each facility. Any purchases, including external calls from landlines in hotel rooms, will be at your own expense.  You will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks. These will be delivered to your room and are funded by the Government. For any additional meals, you can order room service or deliveries from local shops or supermarkets. This will be at your own expense. Dietary needs are catered to as best as possible, including medical needs and cultural tastes. It is important to note that hotel kitchens are not operating in the same way they might usually and the choices available are often limited. There is no need to bring food with you. Remember that New Zealand has strict biosecurity laws about bringing food into the country. Information about bringing food and other risk items into New Zealand (external link)  You can drink alcohol in managed isolation, just remember to drink in moderation. Movement outside rooms is allowed only in a strictly controlled manner. You will be asked to only interact with people in your ‘bubble’ and stay 2 metres away from other people. You need to wear a face mask if: You will get instructions on how to put on, wear, take off and dispose of your mask safely. Leaving your room for exercise is permitted. Rules have been developed by each location that are closely managed by the team on site. You must not leave your facility unless authorised. Reasons could include: Staff from the quarantine and managed isolation programme will ensure steps are taken to minimise the risk of COVID-19 spreading. There will be a team of health professionals at your facility. They are there to care for you. If you are feeling unwell, please stay in your room and phone the on-site team. They will advise what to do next. If at any point during your stay you develop COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your room and call the on-site staff immediately by phone. COVID-19 symptoms You should follow instructions from the medical officer of health or health protection officer during your stay. As well as COVID-19 testing, you will also be required to have a medical assessment. If asked to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) such as face masks, you must do so. It is important you are honest about your health during your stay in managed isolation. While isolation can be difficult, the reason for it is to keep New Zealand safe and stamp out COVID-19. By isolating and monitoring your own health, you’re playing an important role. You may be contacted up to 3 times by Healthline during your stay. This is to check on your health and welfare and is in addition to on-site health checks. Healthline is funded by the Ministry of Health and staffed by an experienced team of health practitioners. The service is part of our commitment to help keep you safe, so please raise any welfare concerns you may have. Let the staff know if you need to speak to a nurse. They can assist you with your prescription needs. If you are under 18, we will help you and your whānau/parents/guardian to make your stay comfortable and safe. There may be some special provisions available, for example to enable school work. A parent might also be able to join you in managed isolation. Last modified: 5 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. We need to balance your circumstances with our need to protect the New Zealand public from COVID-19. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. Generally, releases from managed isolation will only be issued in very limited circumstances, and where the public health risk is low and can be managed. The managed isolation and quarantine website, run by MBIE, has information about exemptions, including:  Guidance on exemptions at Managed isolation and quarantine website (external link) Last modified: 10 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You will be able to leave managed isolation: You’ll be asked for details about your onward travel plans and where you will be staying. If you need help with accommodation, our team can support you with making arrangements.  You will be able to leave quarantine after you have: You will also need to have an onward travel plan and tell us about where you plan to be staying. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. We have put in place a robust system for exemptions from managed isolation. This is to ensure we balance the needs of people facing exceptional circumstances with the need to protect the New Zealand public from COVID-19. Exemptions from managed isolations Transport will be provided back to the airport you arrived at, if you wish. Otherwise, travel home on completion of your stay is at your own expense. Our onsite support team will work with you to confirm your travel arrangements. Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand’s borders are currently closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Border restrictions You still have a legal right to come home if you’re: There are a small number of limited exceptions to closure of New Zealand's borders for people who aren’t citizens or residents. Immigration New Zealand has the most up-to-date information on the border exception criteria and process (external link) Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals into New Zealand must:  You do not currently have to pay for managed isolation or quarantine. Latest update on the Government's plan to introduce charges for managed isolation When you arrive in New Zealand you will be screened for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You will be tested for COVID-19 around days 3 and 12 of your isolation. You must test negative for COVID-19 before you can leave isolation. Leaving managed isolation or quarantine There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. We have put in place a robust system for exemptions from managed isolation. This is to ensure we balance the needs of people facing exceptional circumstances with the need to protect the New Zealand public from COVID-19. Exemptions from managed isolations Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. You should contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. You should also contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from, or transiting through, areas affected by border measures. Get emergency consular assistance if you need it. Call: More help from SafeTravel (external link) Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessels can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are also exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visa information for critical workers in the maritime sector (external link) You will not be able to go to the shops when you arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. You might be able to get shopping and food delivered, but this will depend on where you complete your managed isolation or quarantine. We recommend you bring everything you need for daily life. Last modified: 5 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Get posters like the QR code poster and hygiene posters. Data and statistics about the response to COVID-19 in New Zealand. Information and advice translated into different languages.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Call 111 immediately in an emergency. For advice you can contact the free government helplines.  If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline number on 0800 358 5453 . For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Last modified: 8 June 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Data and statistics about the response to COVID-19 in New Zealand. Get data on cases of COVID-19, testing, and modelling reports in New Zealand. Data and statistics about managed isolation and quarantine in New Zealand.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health is still collecting data about cases of COVID-19 and testing in New Zealand. You can find data on: Data on COVID-19 in New Zealand on the Ministry of Health website (external link) A cluster is a group of 10 or more COVID-19 cases that are linked because the people were in the same place together. Ministry of Health data on significant clusters in New Zealand (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports which help understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health provides a daily update on a range of statistics for New Zealand including the number of tests completed each day and over the previous 7 days. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health is also recording tests by region and by ethnicity within regions. This gives us an accurate picture of the country’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at risk groups with underlying health conditions. Testing by region and ethnicity on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Last modified: 4 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 1-10 of 29 updates 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident. Last modified: 30 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453. Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453. Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected. Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm. Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers:  Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database. Last modified: 6 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb. Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: Health responses include: “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1 Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery.  We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.  Last modified: 9 June 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB] Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said. Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest information on managed isolation charges The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. Last modified: 10 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date. Last modified: 10 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made. Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Immigration NZ has the most up to date information on the border exception criteria and process (external link) Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Managed Isolation and Quarantine (external link) Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. Advice on staying healthy Looking after mental wellbeing (external link) Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice. Last modified: 10 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks Last modified: 6 August 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last modified: 28 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 11-20 of 29 updates 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Displaying 21-29 of 29 updates 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 10 Jun 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 26 June, with some additional relevant material from up to 7 July. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Last modified: 14 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. This release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 26 June, with some additional relevant material from up to 7 July. Where a final decision has been made after 26 June this will be released in a further update. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: In addition to the documents released, the Government has made a number of other key pieces of information relating COVID-19 available: Last modified: 26 June 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Last modified: 26 June 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices; however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) Last modified: 7 June 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display a poster encouraging people to download the NZ COVID Tracer app: Last modified: 23 July 2020
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ngā tohutohu Reo Māori. Kei te Pae Mataara 1 tonu tātou.
We're still at Alert Level 1. Be ready . Our response including Government actions, restrictions, testing and tracing, and the All-of-Government Response Group. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to help your community wellbeing, get help with housing, and get funding as a community group. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Kei te matapoporetia ō tātou paerohe. Engari me ū tātou katoa ki te mahi kei mua i te aroaro. Mā te noho ki te kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana, mā te whai tikanga akuaku, mā te whai tonu i ō takahanga, e āwhina kia noho haumaru ai ō tātou hapori. Nā, hei whakautu i ētahi o ngā pātai e pātaitaihia nei. Me ū tonu te Pae Mataara 1. Ahakoa kua herea te huaketo i Aotearoa i tēnei wā, kei te korara tonu te mate i waho atu i ō tātou paerohe. E kaha tiakina ana ō tātou paerohe i te Pae Mataara 1, heoi e wātea ana te hoki mai a ngā uri o Aotearoa ki te wā kāinga. covid19.govt.nz/travel-and-the-border Ko te tikanga o te Pae Mataara 1, ko te whakariterite.  Me rite tātou katoa ki te tūpono ka puta anō Te Mate Korona i te hapori. Anei ngā mea e toru hei whakariterite mā tātou katoa: Mēnā kua pāngia koe e ngā tohu maremare, rewharewha rānei, me noho koe ki te kāinga, ā, me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki te Waeahauora rānei i 0800 358 5453 e whai kupu āwhina ai mō ngā whakamātautau.  Me whai e koe ngā kupu āwhina a tō tākuta, a ngā āpiha hauora tūmatanui rānei. Me aro ake mēnā ka tohua koe kia whakamātautauria. Ko ngā tohu ēnei: he mare, he pāmahana teitei ake i te 38 waeine tohurau, he hēmanawa, he korokoro mamae, he mātihetihe, he rerenga hūpē, he ngaronga poto rānei o te rongo kakara. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e tētahi o ēnei tohu, ehara i te mea kua pāngia koe e Te Mate Korona.  He rite tonu ōna tohu ki ērā o te maremare, o te rewharewha hoki. Horoia ōu ringaringa ki te hopi.  Me mare, me tihe rānei ki tō tuke. Mā ēnei ritenga hauora ngāwari nei e kaha aukati i te rere o te huaketo. Whakamahia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer mēnā e taea ana, whāia rānei tētahi ritenga e tika ana māu kia mōhio ai i haere koe ki hea, nōnahea i haere atu ai, i tūtaki atu koe ki a wai. Ki te puta anō te huaketo i te hapori, mā ēnei ritenga ō tātou ratonga hauora e āwhina kia tere kitea ngā pāpātanga tata, ā, kia aukati rawatia te rere o te huaketo. Mehemea ka whakamahia e koe te NZ COVID Tracer, ka māmā kē atu ngā mahi a ngā āpiha hauora ki te whakamōhio atu i a koe mēnā e noho mōrearea ana koe i taua mate. He mea nui kia whai tūwatawata tuarua i roto tonu i tō tātou whenua, hei tautoko i ngā aukatinga paerohe.  He nui rawa ō tātou whakahere i raro i te Pae Mataara 3 me te Pae Mataara 4, ā, me ū tonu ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori kia noho haumaru ai, kia iti hoki te tūpono ka rāhuitia anō tātou. Kei te rere tonu Te Mate Korona i waho atu i ngā paerohe o Aotearoa, engari kāore he paerohe e taea nei te turaki mārika i ngā whakawhiu katoa.  Nā reira, me whai e tātou katoa ngā ritenga akuaku ngāwari nei, hei kaupare, hei aukati atu hoki i te Mate Korona. Waihoki mā ēnei ritenga e aukati te rere o te rewharewha me te maremare — ko te painga atu tēnei. Last modified: 31 July 2020