All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The travel pause from Victoria, Australia to New Zealand has been extended to 11:59pm (NZT) on Thursday 10 June. We are planning for managed return flights from Melbourne to New Zealand from Wednesday 9 June. You may be interested in The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Different regions will start at different times. COVID-19 vaccines Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. The pause in New Zealand’s quarantine-free travel with Victoria will be extended until 11:59pm on Thursday 10 June. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. You'll be offered the Pfizer vaccine if you're aged 16 or over — it doesn't matter what your visa or residency status is. Everything you need to know If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Find out when you can get a COVID-19 vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Our website privacy statement, terms of use, contact details if you would like advice or have feedback, and how to access archives of our website. How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Access covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Who to contact if you want to provide feedback. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. Last updated: 23 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Call 111 immediately in an emergency. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: In your email, include your phone’s make and model, the operating system you’re running and, if your query relates to an issue you’re experiencing, a brief description of the issue. If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: Many government agencies have language support available, if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Last updated: 19 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There’s no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. Last updated: 23 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website Last updated: 28 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We’ve removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you'll have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) Last updated: 6 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Find guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Advice for when you leave your house including how to lower the risk of transmission. Advice about gatherings, events, public facilities and other types of gatherings. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. How to stay safe when going out to bars and night clubs. You can get takeaways at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. You can go to cafes, restaurants and bars at Alert Levels 1 and 2. How you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. How to shop safely, access goods and services and get essential supplies. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on managing shared custody, childcare and childcare providers. Information for visiting friends or whānau in an Aged Residential Care (ARC) facility. Advice for renters, landlords and homeowners, and guidance if you need help with accommodation. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 1, bars and night clubs can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Bars and night clubs legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Use the business checklist to tick off actions so your business can make summer unstoppable. Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses Bars and night clubs can open at Alert Level 2, with 100 people per defined space. 1 metre physical distancing is required, except for friends and whānau. Tables will be 1 metre away from other groups. Bars and night clubs have been shown to be places where COVID-19 can spread easily, so it’s important to follow the requirements, even when you’ve had a few drinks. You should not go to a bar or night club if you: If you go to a bar or night club, follow the 3 S’s: Stay seated at your table unless using the bathroom, paying or departing. This means no dancefloors or standing around tables. Your table will be set up at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Make sure you keep 1 metre physical distance throughout the night from other groups and people you don’t know. Each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Make all your orders through your server and do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. You can play pool and use gaming machines provided they are 1 metre apart from each other. You can not eat or drink while playing pool. When playing, make sure you keep 1 metre apart from other groups. We recommend you sign in to a bar or night club with either: A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link)  Last updated: 3 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants and bars can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants and bars can open and have customers on their premises. They legally must meet requirements to keep their customers safe. Delivery, drive-through or contactless pick-up may still be available. The 3 S's will be in place if you're dining in. Advice for going out to a bar or night club You can order and collect food from the counter in cafes or fast food restaurants that do not hold an on-licence or club licence. If you’re dining in, once you have ordered or collected your food, you must return to your seat. You must stay seated unless you’re using the bathroom or paying for your meal. On-licensed and club-licensed premises must continue to adhere to the 3 S's at all times, with a requirement to use table service. Food businesses can open at Alert Level 3, but only for takeaway, delivery or drive through. If you are picking up food in person, make sure you do this as safely as possible. You won't be allowed to enter the store, and need to maintain a 2 metre distance from others. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. Do not go out to get takeaways if you're sick with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick food up or get it delivered. Last updated: 23 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Staying at home if you’re sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you’re waiting for COVID-19 test results, and have been told you need to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If an educational facility has a link to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it will close for 72 hours to allow for cleaning and contact tracing. Alert Level changes mean that some children will have less contact with trusted adults than usual. If you’re worried that a child or young person, you can contact Oranga Tamariki. This could include if you know a child is not safe or is not with their parents or caregivers. Contact Oranga Tamariki, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Phone 0508 326 459 Email contact@ot.govt.nz At Alert Level 1, early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are open for all age groups. Children, young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at school or on school transport. Find out when you need to wear a face covering At Alert Level 2, early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are open for all age groups. Extra public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease and to support contact tracing. Distance learning will be available for those who cannot attend school. For example, where students need to self-isolate. Workplace-based learning will follow the rules that apply to the relevant industry. More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) (external link) Children, young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at their service or school, or on school transport. Find out when you need to wear a face covering  At Alert Level 3, children and young people should learn from home. Any child who does not have supervision at home from an appropriate person can attend their service or school. A wide range of businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 3. This means parents and caregivers may need to go to work, rather than work from or stay at home. Services and schools must be open for children in these situations to attend. Play centres and playgroups will close. Home-based early learning services can open with a maximum of four licensed children. This includes the educators’ own children, provided they meet public health requirements. Distance learning is available for all students who are off-site. Including those who have to self-isolate or who health authorities have asked to stay away while waiting for a test result. Distance learning support and resources (external link) More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) All teaching and other activities should be remote, wherever possible. Where it's not possible to deliver teaching online, some facilities may provide education services. They'll need to follow Alert Level 3 guidelines. Any class or workshop that cannot move online, and remains open, must limit numbers to 20 people or less. Each such group will be a ‘bubble’ and must not interact with any other student/staff bubbles of 20. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) We recommend face coverings for tertiary students and staff when attending on-site activities. Ministry of Education – COVID-19 i nformation and advice (external link) COVID-19 bulletins for tertiary education providers and students (external link) Last updated: 2 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on gathering sizes. We encourage voluntary and not-for-profit sport and recreation facilities and events to display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to assist with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you’re sick, stay home. When exercising in public, keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know if possible. You can do activities like: At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Community sports are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. A sports field can have multiple defined spaces by keeping: We recommend groups be prevented from intermingling or sharing common facilities at the same time. For example, a game of rugby can occur so long as there are no more than 100 people on the field. If that field has a stand on either side, up to 100 people can gather in each stand if they are kept separate from those from the other stand and from players and umpires on the field. Organisers and the person in control of the premises are responsible for collecting contact tracing information. Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link)  Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Gatherings, events and public venues Exercise and recreation is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, there's a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others, touch common equipment or surfaces, or need rescuing or medical care. You can do activities that are local and safe. Only exercise alone or with the people in your bubble. You need to keep a 2 metre distance from people who are not in your bubble, and you are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. The most important thing is to stay safe. Do low-risk activities, so you don’t need rescuing or medical care. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you’re experienced you can do more activities. These include: Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. What is not allowed: Stick to your local area. For example, go to your nearest beach or park, not your favourite one. You cannot stay overnight at a bach or holiday home. If you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2 metre distance from others, go home — go out later. We recommend driving as short a distance as you can and still do the activity. Find detailed information about sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. Hunters cannot stay in DOC huts or campgrounds under Alert Level 3 and hunting must also be consistent with the usual local area restrictions. This is not the time to take up hunting as a new hobby. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you want to go fishing you can do so from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. You can fish for whitebait at Alert Level 3 during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and do not use motorised vehicles to get to your fishing spot. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge, and do not enter the water or use a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it’s close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. Last updated: 15 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If someone in your whānau dies: Choosing a funeral director is an important decision to make after someone dies. You do not have to use a funeral director if you do not want — you can organise everything yourself if you want to. If you decide to use a funeral director, we recommend this being be one of the first things you organise. If the person has died from: You might not be able to say goodbye to a loved one, in the way you ’re used to, and this could be very challenging. Read through the basic advice on mental wellbeing and call or text 1737 . Talk with a trained counsellor, for free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Looking after your mental wellbeing There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 1. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold one. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help in contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, up to 100 people in each defined space can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. The organiser legally must ensure that contact tracing requirements are met. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: More information about gatherings and events Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals, tangihanga and burials are allowed at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people in the same bubble may go to view the tūpapaku, the person who has died, by appointment with the funeral director. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in groups of up to 10 from the same bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. No food or drink can be served, and physical distancing should be maintained between people. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga we recommend still keeping 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. The general guidance for avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. At Alert Level 3 there are strict restrictions in place for travel between regions. This is necessary to reduce the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel into or out of a region at Alert Level 3 for a funeral or tangihanga you will need to apply for an exemption. Regional travel Last updated: 15 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Do not go to any gatherings or attend public events if you: There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a social gathering or event or enter a public facility at Alert Level 1. If you’re travelling from an Alert Level 2 region to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings or events, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can also print off QR codes for private events like social gatherings at your home. This isn’t mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. Get your QR code poster Use the events checklist to tick off actions to make summer unstoppable. Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] Social gatherings can go ahead at Alert Level 2 with up to 100 people in a defined space. You can have guests over to your home, but the 100 person limit applies. This includes people who usually live in your house. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the 100 person limit. Social gatherings include: Funeral and tangihanga requirements Religious community advice Play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. The person organising the gathering legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. At a social gathering you do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. If you have hired a venue just for a gathering then the rules on gatherings apply. If you’re a business or service, then the rules for businesses and hospitality apply. For example, eating dinner with friends at a restaurant. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: Public facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. If you go to a public facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Public facilities include: We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. How to do business safely at Alert Level 2 Event facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. If you go to an event facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Event facilities include: We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for: Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Religious communities at Alert Level 3 The person organising the wedding, funeral or tangihanga legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. Public venues legally must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. If you believe you have observed behaviour that's not appropriate, and you're certain the individuals concerned are not following Alert Level requirements, you can report it. Report a breach online Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link)  Last updated: 27 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings You can leave your house and gather with as many people as you want at Alert Level 1. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings We encourage you to use face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, for example in supermarkets. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, it's important that you follow public health measures and consider others. Do everything you can to reduce the risk of transmission. Exercising safely There are times when it's important that you not be out and about. You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, take extra care when you leave your house. Guidance for at-risk people At Alert Level 3, we recommend people stay at home as much as possible except for exercise, going to work or school, or visiting local services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness should you contract COVID-19, you need to be especially careful. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 More information about exercising safely You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings Staying close to home is one of the most important things we can do to reduce the risk of spreading the disease. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered “local” will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. You can exercise at parks or beaches within your region, but the closer to home the better. Be safe while out exercising. Keep 2 metres away from anybody not in your bubble. Make minimal trips. Most of all during this time, we encourage you to continue to connect with one another. Stay in touch with your older relatives and vulnerable people, talk to your friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone and see if they need your support. Acts of kindness and maintaining these connections is essential while we work to stop the spread of COVID-19. Last updated: 23 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Advice for renters, landlords and homeowners, and guidance if you need help with accommodation. Information on moving house, home maintenance, and buying or selling a property. Information to help you access or pay for accommodation. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you need help to access or pay for accommodation during COVID-19, there are several ways to get support. It depends on your situation. If you’re leaving a managed isolation facility and have nowhere to stay, talk to the manager of your managed isolation facility. If you’re a public housing tenant of Kāinga Ora or a Community Housing provider, contact your tenancy manager. You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009: Housing information at Work and Income (external link) If you’re under 19 call your Youth Service provider if you have one. If you do not have a Youth Service provider call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . Say ‘youth client’ when you call. If you’re in urgent need of housing within the next 7 days and have nowhere else to stay, call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 : Housing information at Work and Income (external link) If you’re at risk from family violence and are in immediate danger call 111 . Press 55 to go through to the police. If you’re not in immediate danger but need help with family violence you can call: Last updated: 1 December 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise people about this advice: More information for tenants and landlords is available on the Tenancy Services website (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend you delay settlement until after the Alert Level is at 2 or less. You can look for properties to buy, but we recommend doing this without face-to-face contact with real estate agents, owners or existing tenants. Last updated: 17 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. How to shop safely, access goods and services and get essential supplies. How to shop safely, including advice about getting groceries delivered, and what to do if you suspect price gouging. Advice for accessing goods and services, such as food shopping, healthcare, waste collection and vets. Support available if you need help getting groceries and other essential supplies. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. These goods and services are available at all Alert Levels: Supermarkets and dairies are open at all Alert Levels. Supermarket websites tell you if they have online shopping available for everyone. If they are reserving online shopping for sick or at-risk people, we recommending you go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. Guidance for shopping safely Doctors, hospitals and pharmacies are open at all Alert Levels. Call your doctor before you visit. How to access healthcare If you need help, there is financial support available. This includes help with financial hardship from Work and Income and a mortgage repayment holiday. Find out what financial support is available Waste collection will occur at all Alert Levels. Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) Funeral directors will continue working at all Alert Levels. The rules for funerals and tangihanga are different for each Alert Level. Information about funerals and tangihanga at different Alert Levels Veterinary services are available at all Alert Levels. If you’re self-isolating, you legally must phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) Last updated: 19 August 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you need food, there are a number of ways to get help. You may be able to get help through Work and Income. You don’t need to be an existing Work and Income client. If your situation is urgent and you need food within the next 24 to 48 hours, you can contact a local food bank. The Ministry of Social Development is helping fund these. Find food banks and other food assistance services across New Zealand (external link) Support may be available to get food delivered if you can’t leave your home. You can make: If this is not possible, you can also seek assistance through community groups, food banks, social service or health providers. Contact details for these groups on the Family Services Directory (external link) If you also need financial assistance, call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals in New Zealand Work and Income may be able to help you pay for groceries or goods, if you’re on a low income or a benefit. Find out how Work and Income can help (external link) Last updated: 7 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you are heading out to pick up the essentials, plan your shopping in advance. Do not make multiple trips and make sure you know what restrictions shops have in place. Supermarkets, dairies, butchers, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations, pharmacies and permitted health services are open at all Alert Levels, and you can go into their premises. All other shops can open if they can safely do so. This means following health restrictions for the relevant Alert Level. Guidance on which workplaces are open at different Alert Levels, and how they should operate (external link) Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19 or were told to self-isolate. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell If you cannot get essential supplies The risk of COVID-19 transmission by food packaging is very unlikely. New Zealand Food Safety do not recommend disinfecting food products. Supermarket websites will tell you if they have slots available for general online shopping. If they reserve these for sick or at-risk people, we recommend going to the supermarket instead of shopping online. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries. We recommend following the advice that applies to the Alert Level you're in. Businesses are free to set their own prices, but businesses should be transparent about their prices and any increases during this time. You can report concerns about potential price gouging on goods and services to Price Watch. Report price increases you have noticed to Price Watch (external link) Last updated: 27 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. During all COVID-19 Alert Levels, visits to ARC facilities will be restricted. It is important that facilities take extra precautions to ensure people in their care are safe. This is particularly important for those who are more at risk of infection and severe illness. At all Alert Levels, if you visit a facility: You cannot enter a facility if you: During Alert Level 1, visits will be allowed. Providers may continue to take some extra precautions to reduce the risk to the residents and staff. Contact the provider to discuss your visit. Formal visiting hours may remain in place. Remember to follow the Alert Level 1 guidelines. This includes: During Alert Level 2, visits will be allowed. Providers will take precautions and manage visits in a controlled way. This will minimise the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to residents and staff. Visits may be limited to designated visitors. There may be a limit on the number of designated visitors at one time. Check with the provider before organising a visit. Lengths of visits and visiting areas will be determined by the provider. They will consider the resident’s health, preference, and the number of appointments the facility already has. Health screening and assessment of visitors will be completed before entering the facility. Visitors must follow infection prevention and control measures. This includes hand hygiene, physical distancing and appropriate use of PPE. Last updated: 8 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Alert Level 2 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. Alert Level 3 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. Information about what measures could be taken at Alert Level 4. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Our plan to manage any potential COVID-19 resurgence over summer. Data and statistics about COVID-19 vaccinations, cases and testing in New Zealand. You can also find data about clusters, locations of interest and managed isolation and quarantine. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB]  At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency Likely the disease is not contained. High risk the disease is not contained. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Detailed information about Alert Level 2 The disease is contained in New Zealand. Detailed information about Alert Level 1 Last updated: 15 December 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for almost all arrivals, and managed isolation or quarantine for anyone who is not travelling quarantine-free. Travel to New Zealand Staying at home if you’re sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. Stay home if you’re sick If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms Getting a COVID-19 test Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings Keep up good handwashing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to continue tracking where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help with contact tracing, if required. You can use the NZ COVID Tracer app on public transport, in workplaces and when visiting businesses and shops. You can also add manual entries for places that do not have a QR code poster. How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Alternatively, you can keep your own diary with details of places you’ve visited, the time you were there and who you were with. How to keep track of where you’ve been Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster to help customers to keep track of where they’ve been. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it’s still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 2, you can go to work and school, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 2 there may be some situations where you need to self-isolate or go into a quarantine facility. Who needs to self-isolate or quarantine, and how testing works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy You should keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses are legally required to display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. They legally must also have an alternative contact tracing system. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster At Alert Level 2, you can leave home, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: Physical distancing detailed information At Alert Level 2 the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You: Who needs to wear face coverings You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You should not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Local travel restrictions You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 2 or lower. Regional travel No more than 100 people at social gatherings, including weddings, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. There are specific restrictions at Alert Level 2 depending on the type of gathering: You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, if you can do them safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 Gatherings, events and public facilities Businesses can open, but they legally must follow public health rules. These include physical distancing and record keeping. How to do business at Alert Level 2 You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 Early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are open to all ages. There are some restrictions if a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 is found related to an educational facility. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 2 Last updated: 27 February 2021 at 9:24 pm Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Stay home if you can to avoid any risk of spread. You must work from home unless you're not able to. Children should learn at home if possible. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms If you get a COVID-19 test, you legally must stay home in self-isolation until you receive your results. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy We recommend you keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you're not at work or school. You can expand this to: It’s important to protect your bubble. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and healthy. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they legally must immediately self-isolate from everyone else within the bubble. Do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, extended family and whānau, to enter your home. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: Maintaining physical distancing You: Face covering advice and requirements You can travel within your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Public transport can continue to operate with strict health and safety requirements. Local travel at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3 travel between regions is heavily restricted. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for: Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Public venues legally must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area. How to exercise and do recreational activities safely at Alert Level 3  At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff working from home if they can. How to do business at Alert Level 3 Travel across Alert Level 2 and 3 areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. You may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 Where possible we encourage students to learn from home. Schools can safely open but will have limited capacity. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 3 Last updated: 2 June 2021 at 9:23 pm Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. New Zealand may go into Alert Level 4 if it is likely COVID-19 is not contained, there is sustained and intensive community transmission of cases, and there are widespread outbreaks. We are publishing this information about what could happen at Alert Level 4 so people and businesses can plan for any Alert Level change. At Alert Level 4, it is likely COVID-19 is not contained. At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency We have not repeated the same Alert Level 4 information as last year. This is because any possible future move into Alert Level 4 may look different. If you would like to read our old Alert Level 4 webpage, you can find archived versions of our site and navigate to it from there. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. Last updated: 4 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you’re concerned that someone is not following the rules you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements Last updated: 13 August 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Auckland joined the rest of New Zealand at Alert Level 1 at midday on Friday 12 March. What we all need to do at Alert Level 1 If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Find out when you can get a COVID-19 vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. You can get data on: Current COVID-19 cases (external link) You can get data on confirmed and probable cases by: COVID-19 case demographics (external link) Data on how the virus has spread in New Zealand, for example imported cases, locally acquired but linked to another case, or locally acquired with no known source. You can also get data on clusters of cases. Source of COVID-19 cases (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes data on: COVID-19 testing data (external link) The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. You can get: COVID-19 vaccine data (external link) Data and statistics about managed isolation and quarantine is published by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE). The data includes: Managed isolation and quarantine data (external link) The Ministry of Health collects i nformation on how much people are using the NZ COVID Tracer app. You can get daily data on: NZ COVID Tracer app data (external link) Find more sources of data related to COVID-19, if the data collected by the Ministry of Health is not what you need. Examples include the ESR dashboard, Stats NZ’s COVID-19 data portal and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you’re a researcher. COVID-19 data resources (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Last updated: 7 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community.  At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2.  The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm.  Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: Last updated: 12 March 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1-10 of 354 updates 04 Jun 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 Jun 2021 The pause in New Zealand’s quarantine-free travel with Victoria will be extended until 11:59pm on Thursday 10 June. 03 Jun 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Jun 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 01 Jun 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 May 2021 The Government is introducing precautionary pre-departure testing for anyone who was in Victoria in the days leading up to the Victoria travel bubble pause. 28 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 May 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 27 May 2021 The pause in New Zealand’s quarantine-free travel with Victoria will be extended until 7:59pm on Friday 4 June. 27 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Pfizer has scheduled delivery of an estimated 1 million doses of vaccine to New Zealand during July. These deliveries will double the total number of Pfizer doses New Zealand has received this year to more than 1,900,000 – enough to fully vaccinate almost 1 million Kiwis. The doses will arrive in weekly drops, ramping up in quantity from mid July as the wider population roll out happens. The drops will enable us to continue vaccinating Groups 1, 2, and 3, while giving us the certainty needed to start the general population rollout as planned. The supplies means DHBs can keep delivering to their plans and start accelerating their way through Group 3 from mid July – which is everyone over the age of 65 and people with disabilities and some underlying health conditions. It’s a group of more than 1 million people and will take time to work through. As Group 4 starts, vaccination efforts will significantly ramp up. Around 20,000 doses a day are currently being administered and the Pfizer deliveries throughout July will enable this to increase significantly. At the peak of the programme in August and September it's expected around 50,000 doses per day will be given. To date, over a quarter of a million people have been vaccinated. Our strategy has meant we’ve largely avoided having to stretch the time between first and second doses as many countries have. Work is well under way to set up more vaccination sites, deliver mass vaccination events, and bring more GPs and pharmacies on-board to help with the rollout. While the ongoing pandemic can impact vaccine delivery schedules, Pfizer has given us further assurances that the remaining deliveries for 2021 are also on track, just as their deliveries to date have been. We have vaccinated more people than we had planned for at this point in time and more than 6,800 vaccinators have completed the necessary training to administer the Pfizer vaccine. We have one of the best vaccines in the world and starting later next month we will start making it available, for free, to everyone in New Zealand over the age of 16. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government has introduced the new requirement under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021. Joint Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, Brigadier Jim Bliss, says this is a big milestone in New Zealand’s vaccination programme. “This is the largest immunisation programme ever undertaken in this country and MIQ and border workers were first in line. They are among the people most at risk of exposure and I’m really proud so many of them have stepped up and led the way for the country. “The COVID-19 vaccination programme roll-out started on 20 February when MIQ workers at the Jet Park facility in Auckland were the first people to be offered the vaccination. We’ve come a really long way in such a short time”, he says. “As of today 95% of MIQ workers have been vaccinated. We always expected there would be a small percentage who wouldn’t. “On any given day we have around 4,500 people working in our 32 MIQ facilities from over 300 different employers. Anyone not vaccinated, in order to meet the border order requirement, will be redeployed by their employer. These are individual employment discussions for employers to have with their employees. We have supported them with assistance from the Ministry for Social Development to explore other employment options. “To keep workers protected and our communities safe from transmission, all public and private MIQ workers, contractors and visitors (permanent and occasional) will, from 1 May, have to provide proof of vaccination each time they enter a facility. “Border and MIQ staff have now supported more than 134,000 people to safely cross the border to life in New Zealand. Having a vaccinated MIQ workforce will provide a critical additional line of defence to keep them, their whānau and our communities safe and well, and help prevent COVID-19 from spreading into our communities. It’s an extra layer to help protect all New Zealanders against COVID-19.” Christine Stevenson, Chair of the Border Executive Board and Chief Executive of the New Zealand Customs Service, says the new requirements will also apply to workers employed by government agencies at the border who interact with international arriving air passengers (not including quarantine free travel) and crew or ship’s crew, or who spend more than 15 minutes in an enclosed space on board ships. “Government border agencies will have a duty to ensure that only people who have been vaccinated are permitted to carry out work, or other activities, at our international airports and ports”, she says. “Our border workers across government and MIQ have done a remarkable selfless job in keeping our country safe from COVID-19. “Being fully vaccinated gives an even greater level of protection to these workers, their families and the community.” Initially, current workers will be considered vaccinated if they have had one dose of the vaccine. All current workers must have had two doses of the vaccine by 5 June 2021. New workers covered by the Order will need to have their first dose before starting work, and then have 35 days from starting work to receive their second dose. Learn more about vaccination requirements for workers in high-risk border settings Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If symptoms develop, call Healthline on 0800 611 116 and get a test, following a green zone breach at Brisbane Airport. The risk from this event continues to be assessed as low. Health officials in Queensland have identified Brisbane’s international terminal as a location of interest following yesterday’s green zone breach at the airport and classified anyone in the terminal between 9.45AM local time and midday yesterday (Thursday) as casual contacts and asked people to monitor their symptoms. The reported breach was in the Hudson Café and the nearby male toilets on level 3 in the terminal where two individuals from a red zone country were in the café and also used the toilets, accessible to green zone passengers. Queensland Health has informed the Ministry that both passengers were tested in Brisbane with one returning a negative result and the other returning a weak positive. A subsequent PCR test confirmed the weak positive. Queensland Health has informed the Ministry that the two red zone passengers were wearing masks, maintaining social distancing with very little interaction with others and are not symptomatic. CCTV footage also shows the café table was cleared and cleaned when they left. The three flights affected are Air New Zealand NZ 202 from Brisbane to Christchurch which arrived around 4.30 pm yesterday; Air New Zealand NZ 146 from Brisbane to Auckland which arrived at 5.30 pm yesterday and Qantas QF 135 from Brisbane to Christchurch yesterday. A reminder for people who may need a COVID-19 test – Auckland Regional Public Health Service (ARPHS) for all testing locations in Auckland. For all testing locations nationwide visit the Healthpoint website. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Following this advice, the Ministry of Health asks all affected travellers from Brisbane to New Zealand on Thursday afternoon and evening (NZ time) to follow its updated health advice. The reported breach is linked to two individuals from a red zone country who were in the café and also used the toilets, both accessible to green zone passengers. The two individuals were tested in Brisbane with one returning a negative result and the other returning a weak positive, confirmed by a second PCR test. It remains reassuring that the two red zone individuals wore masks, maintained social distancing, had very little interaction with others and have not been symptomatic. While the health risk from the green zone breach event remains low, the Queensland authorities have advised New Zealand counterparts that those travellers who were in two locations of interest at specified times within the international terminal are Casual Plus contacts . The two locations of interest are: The three flights affected are: As a precaution, anyone who was at these locations at these times should now immediately return home or to their accommodation, isolate until they get a negative result from a day five test on Tuesday 4 May. Travellers who were in either of these two locations at this time should contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and register as a casual plus contact. The Ministry of Health’s contact tracing team will be contacting passengers on the three flights tomorrow. The Ministry remains in contact with Queensland Health authorities and will provide updates as more information becomes available. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 11 August media conference Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Watch the COVID-19 media conference held by government officials and ministers at 4pm. Speakers: Transcript of the 4pm media conference The COVID-19 media conference was held at 10:30am. Speakers: Transcript of the 10:30am media conference Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one new case to report in a recent returnee in our managed isolation facilities, since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference with ministers was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 13 August media conference Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the Prime Minister's 5:30pm media conference [PDF, 275 KB] (external link) The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 14 August 1pm media conference [PDF, 194 KB] (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are six new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference here. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are also no new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on Covid-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference starts shortly. Speakers: Watch the media conference here. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers:  Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A huge amount of work has gone on behind the scenes to boost numbers of trained vaccinators. The specialised online training has been important to ensure there's sufficient workforce as the COVID-19 vaccine rolls out. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (IMAC) started running the training for the Pfizer vaccine in February and as of this week, there's been 5,358 vaccinators who’ve completed the programme. So far, almost 2,000 vaccinators have been involved in actively immunising people since the COVID-19 vaccine rollout started nearly three months ago. The dedicated vaccinators — nurses, doctors, pharmacists and those in other approved vaccinating professions — are working extremely hard to protect New Zealanders against this virus as the rollout expands into Group 3. It's important to remember that the most significant roll-out won’t begin until July when vaccinating the general public begins, so we’re preparing our vaccination workforce with that timeline in mind. Current modelling indicates we’ll need around 1,600 full-time equivalent vaccinators when our vaccination rollout peaks later this year. Not all of the people trained so far will be available to work full-time, so additional initiatives are also underway to further boost the pool of vaccinators. Last week, the Ministry of Health started consultation with the health and disability sector about change to the Medicines Regulations to allow people across the country to work as supplementary COVID-19 vaccinators. This change would target people with health and disability sector experience, including: This new workforce would undergo specialist training first and their work would be fully supervised. This change would increase the numbers of Māori and Pacific in the vaccinator workforce, who are currently under-represented. Improvements have been made to the Ministry of Health's COVID-19 Surge Workforce database to better support the next phase of the scale-up. Since the database was launched in early last year, there have been many thousands of people register their interest in supporting the programme across various roles, including as vaccinators. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. "Because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public, with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. I require the following people to do 2 things. This direction applies to the following people: If you need advice accessing financial assistance while you have been directed to isolate at home you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009." Given at Wellington at 1pm Wednesday 12 August 2020 Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director-General of Health Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ministry of Health officials have this evening been advised a worker at a Perth managed isolation facility has tested positive for COVID-19 as part of routine testing. Two of the person’s housemates have also tested positive. Ministry officials have conducted a rapid public health assessment for New Zealand, and have determined scheduled direct flights from Western Australia to New Zealand should be immediately paused while a further assessment is carried out, including a further assessment and information from Australian health officials. Western Australian health officials have determined a number of locations of interest, which are listed on its website. Anyone who has left Perth in the past four days and arrived in New Zealand should check the website. Find out more about the locations of interest (external link) Recent arrivals in New Zealand who have been at these locations of interest should self-isolate immediately and call Healthline in the morning for further advice. Contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 More information will be released tomorrow. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. New Zealand health officials today participated in a meeting with their Australian counterparts to further assess the public health risk of the recently identified COVID-19 community cases in Perth. It has been determined that the risk to public health in New Zealand is low. Following further assessment, the Ministry of Health is advising airlines that flights between Perth and New Zealand can resume as early as tomorrow. This follows last night’s temporary pause in direct Perth-New Zealand bound flights while the Ministry was awaiting a further assessment from Western Australian officials. “While the public health risk is deemed low, we must all remain vigilant as we enjoy the opportunities Quarantine-Free Travel has given us. There are some additional public health measures we require of people who are or have recently been in Western Australia,” said Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. Anyone who has been in Perth since 27 April is advised to check the Western Australian Government website for locations of interest. If you were at a location of interest at a specified time and you are still in Perth and are planning to travel to New Zealand, you are asked to follow the Western Australia health advice regarding isolation and testing on the above website. In addition, anyone who has been at a location of interest cannot travel to New Zealand from Australia within 14 days of exposure. This includes any additional locations of interest that are determined in the coming days and yet to be announced. Learn more about the locations of interest (external link) If you have recently arrived in New Zealand from Australia and were in a location of interest at the specified time, please self-isolate immediately and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for information on when you should be tested. Around 750 passengers who travelled either directly or indirectly between Western Australia and New Zealand between 27 April and 1 May are being contacted today by the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing team and being given the above advice. There may be additional passengers identified as contact tracers work with other government agencies to confirm travel histories and contact details. “The travel bubble allows us to reconnect with our loved ones across the Tasman, but we must still follow basic public health measures. It’s important we continue to keep a record of where we have been by scanning QR codes and turning on Bluetooth using the COVID Tracer app, or keep manual diaries. Please continue to maintain personal hygiene measures and if you’re unwell please stay home and call Healthline to work out whether you need to get a test,” said Dr Bloomfield. “Both countries have planned for this type of scenario and are following agreed Trans-Tasman bubble protocols. We always knew disruption to travel plans was possible, and it is important that travellers follow the instructions in order to limit any risk of further spread. We’d like to thank people for their patience and cooperation.” Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Confirmation of four linked cases of COVID-19 in Melbourne’s northern suburbs was announced today by Victorian Health. The Ministry is not recommending a pause on the Quarantine Free Travel arrangements with Victoria at this stage. However, there will be testing and isolation requirements on people who have been in locations of interest in Melbourne, including those who have travelled back to New Zealand in recent days. The Ministry’s current assessment is that the public health risk is appropriately managed through the actions taken by Victorian health authorities. In Australia, the 14-day travel restrictions for those who have visited locations of interest means they are ineligible to travel to New Zealand within 14 days from exposure – even with a negative COVID-19 test. The four community cases identified today have not yet been linked to a previous case in Melbourne reported on 11 May though this remains under investigation. Victorian health authorities will provide further details in coming days. As an additional precaution, the Ministry recommends anyone in New Zealand who has visited Melbourne since 11 May should monitor for symptoms and if any develop seek advice on testing from Healthline. Two locations of interest have been announced by health officials in Victoria and more sites are expected to be announced as Australian officials continue their contact tracing investigations. Information about locations of interest visited by the four cases will be provided on the Victoria Health website. Anyone in New Zealand who has been at any of the locations of interest at the specified times should contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on self-isolation and testing as soon as possible. Individuals in Australia who were at a location of interest at the specified times cannot travel for 14 days after being at the location of interest and should follow Victoria health advice regarding isolation and testing. The Ministry will remain in close contact with its Australian counterparts as the situation evolves. Anyone planning to travel to Victoria should take into account that advice from health authorities could change at any time and be prepared for their travel plans to be disrupted. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government has confirmed for the first time the amount of money it has allocated over 2 years for vaccines and the vaccination programme. Setting aside $1.4 billion for vaccines and infrastructure means New Zealand is well-placed to meet our COVID-19 challenges head on. Of this, more than $1 billion has been allocated for purchasing vaccines and specialist equipment. $964.3 million is for manufacturer advance purchase agreements and the COVAX facility to support equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines. $66.3 million is for specialist vaccine equipment, including purchase of syringes and related vaccine storage facilities and transport. The remaining $356.9 million has been allocated for technology to support the rollout, funding for DHBs, ongoing support for Medsafe, and to stand up community immunisation centres. In addition to the $1.4 billion, $30 million has gone into vaccine research and the potential for domestic manufacturing, and $75 million for Official Development Assistance funding to support Pacific and global vaccine access. This is a massive investment to continue support for what is the biggest single undertaking the health system has ever faced. We have secured sufficient doses to vaccinate every New Zealander for free and to also support our Pacific neighbours. Additional vaccines deemed safe and effective can be deferred for later use and further donated to support regional recovery. New Zealand will continue to face uncertainties over the coming year as COVID-19 spreads and evolves globally, and it’s critical we keep investing in our health response to keep New Zealanders safe. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: Health responses include: “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. New Zealand health officials met today to conduct a further assessment of the public health risk from the recently identified COVID-19 community cases in Sydney. It has been determined that the risk to public health in New Zealand remains low. The Ministry of Health is advising airlines that flights can resume from 23:59 pm tomorrow evening (Sunday 9 May) subject to there being no further significant developments. There is some specific advice for travellers to be aware of: Direct flights from New South Wales to New Zealand were paused at 23:59 pm on 6 May, pending further information and reassurance from the New South Wales health investigation into two cases of COVID-19 in the Sydney community. Since the two cases were confirmed in Sydney last week, there have been no new community cases of COVID-19 detected in New South Wales. New Zealand health officials have considered a range of factors, including whether any new cases had been identified, the results from COVID-19 testing of any contacts identified and from the wider Sydney community, and the results from waste-water surveillance testing. Following this risk assessment and a review of these factors, they have been reassured that at this stage the two community cases in Sydney are contained and that there is no evidence of widespread undetected community transmission. There will be some additional public health measures required for people who are, or have recently been in Sydney. Our officials remain in close contact with health officials in New South Wales and will continue to closely monitor the situation. Updates will be provided if there is any change to this latest advice. We acknowledge that this travel pause has caused disruption to peoples travel plans. Learn more about quarantine-free travel between New South Wales and New Zealand Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and Cook Islands Prime Minister Mark Brown have today announced that, pending final confirmation by New Zealand’s Director-General of Health and the Cook Islands Secretary of Health, two-way quarantine-free travel will commence between the two countries on 17 May (NZT). “Two way quarantine-free travel is a significant step in both countries’ COVID-19 recovery, and a direct result of both New Zealand and the Cook Islands’ successful response to the pandemic,” Jacinda Ardern said. “It will mean families can reconnect, commercial arrangements can resume and Kiwis can take a much-welcomed winter break and support the Cook Islands’ tourism sector and recovery. “That we can take this step in our recovery so soon after opening the trans-Tasman bubble highlights the benefits of our COVID-19 management, and the opportunities it is now providing New Zealand and our neighbours. “This is a world-leading arrangement and it’s important to remember many other countries still have bans in place on travel for holiday purposes.” Jacinda Ardern said a huge amount of work had gone into ensuring the two-way bubble was safe and that the Cook Islands was set up and ready for it. “The health and safety of the people of the Cook Islands has at all times been paramount. “Vaccination, while not an answer on its own, will provide an added layer of protection once rolled out, and we continue to advance these plans alongside the Cook Islands,” said Jacinda Ardern. “The confirmation of 17 May for the commencement of two-way quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand is the result of our uncompromising commitment to ensuring all necessary health and border measures are instituted to the highest standards of protection against COVID-19 prior to commencement,” Mark Brown said. “Since my visit to New Zealand at the end of March, and various engagements with Prime Minister Ardern and members of her Cabinet, we have jointly elevated effort towards bolstering readiness and response capabilities against COVID-19 in preparation for the safe resumption of two-way quarantine-free travel between our countries. “The learnings from the trans-Tasman arrangement have informed further bolstering of response capabilities by both Governments in preparation for commencement of the Cook Islands - New Zealand quarantine-free travel arrangement. “In close partnership with New Zealand, we are continuing to work through final details for the deployment of vaccines to the Cook Islands and expect to provide further details on the vaccine roll-out within the next week few weeks. “I acknowledge with deepest gratitude our people’s continued trust in our leadership and whole of society endeavour to keep our people safe from the virus, and the incredible work of a steadfast team of committed officials working in close partnership with our community and industry and their New Zealand counterparts. “Today we start our journey of recovery. Today we get back to business. Today with our joint confirmation of the 17 May, we give our people, and particularly our industry, the certainty necessary to institute remaining preparatory steps to once more welcome visitors to our shores.” Commencement of the bubble is subject to a final set of criteria being met, including airline and airport preparedness, all necessary protocols and frameworks being in place, and final sign off from the New Zealand Director-General of Health and the Cook Islands Secretary of Te Marae Ora – Ministry of Health. Full information about quarantine-free travel, including eligibility, what travellers should expect, and updates to requirements, are on: Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Auckland moved to Alert Level 3 at 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August. Restrictions for Auckland at Alert Level 3 The rest of New Zealand will move to Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry of Health’s current assessment is that the public health risk to New Zealand from the Melbourne community case announced today is low. On that basis the Ministry does not at this stage recommend any change in Quarantine-Free Travel between New Zealand and Victoria. The Ministry’s current assessment is based on information provided by Victorian Health authorities that there is a likely link to the border through the recent time spent in managed isolation in South Australia, a limited period when the individual was in the community while infectious — since 6 May, and relatively few locations of interest. Victorian Health authorities are following up contacts at a workplace from 5 May. Information about locations of interest visited by the case is available on Victoria’s Department of Health website. Locations of interest in Victoria, Australia (external link) Individuals in Australia who were at a location of interest at the specified times are required to follow Victoria’s health advice regarding isolation and testing. Anyone who has been at a location of interest cannot travel to New Zealand from Australia within 14 days of exposure. Anyone in New Zealand who has been at any of the locations of interest at the specified times should contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 , self-isolate and be tested as soon as possible. The Ministry will be requesting airlines communicate this message to anyone flying to New Zealand from Victoria in the next 24 hours. The Ministry will also be contacting recent arrivals from Melbourne and Victoria since 6 May providing the same advice. The Ministry will remain in close contact with its Australian counterparts as the situation evolves. Anyone planning to travel to Melbourne and Victoria should take into account that advice from health authorities could change at any time and be prepared for their travel plans to be disrupted. An update is expected tomorrow, later in the day, based on results of additional testing and a further public health assessment by Victoria’s health officials. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The latest surge in New Zealanders downloading the NZ COVID Tracer app has taken it over the 1 million mark of registered users. Keep track of where you've been The NZ COVID Tracer app gives us a strong head start in responding. It is not enough to rely on your memory or personal records. All businesses will need to display a QR code for the NZ COVID Trader app by 11:59am on 19 August. It is easy for businesses to download a QR code for their business using a fast new process. Get your QR code  Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The reported incident was in the Hudson Café in Brisbane airport where two individuals from a red zone country were in the café at the same time as green zone passengers. The risk has been assessed as low. The Ministry of Health understands the two red zone passengers returned negative results prior to departure from their home country. A second test result from swabs taken today has returned a weak positive for one test and a negative result for the other. The three flights affected are: Queensland Health have informed the Ministry of Health that the two red zone passengers were wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and are not symptomatic. Additional testing is being coordinated by Queensland Health. Each plane has been met by officials who provided information to passengers alerting them to the potential breach and providing advice about monitoring their health for the next two weeks and contacting Healthline and getting tested if symptoms develop. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery.  We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.  Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB] Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. This means people flying to New Zealand from Australia must return a negative COVID-19 test within 72 hours of departure if they have been in Victoria on or after 20 May and who are not otherwise prevented from travelling to New Zealand. The new pre-departure testing requirements will come into force for all flights arriving in New Zealand after 11:59pm (NZT) on 31 May 2021, to minimise disruption for those passengers with imminent departures. Before this time, either a pre-departure test, or test and self-isolation on arrival into New Zealand will be accepted for entry into the country. If you are in Australia and need information about where to get a test, contact Australia's National coronavirus helpline. Call Australia's National coronavirus helpline on 1800 020 080 . Anyone who has been in Victoria since 7:59pm on 25 May, cannot fly to New Zealand at all due to the travel pause in place. Extra checks are in place at points of departure and arrival so any travellers who fall into this category, regardless of where in Australia they are flying to New Zealand from, must keep evidence of a negative pre-departure test on them at all times. Failure to produce evidence could result in people being denied boarding, or penalties on arrival in New Zealand. The only exception is for children under two years old. This step is being taken to ensure those people who have been in Melbourne during the infectious period of the original detected COVID-19 cases, but who have since flown to another state, can’t fly on to New Zealand without first confirming they don’t have COVID-19. This is a prudent step. The health and safety of New Zealanders is at the centre of our decision-making. Case numbers have risen in Victoria again today, and there are growing numbers of locations of interest. While we don’t see these travellers who have left Victoria prior to 25 May as a major risk to New Zealand, we want to ensure the risk is reduced as much as possible. A negative pre-departure test can give us a higher degree of confidence that a person will not be infectious upon arrival in New Zealand. All New Zealanders overseas should also register at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel (external link) . Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Following the Victorian Government’s decision to extend their lockdown restrictions,  New Zealand’s Quarantine Free Travel pause with Victoria will also be extended for a further six days, with a further review due on Wednesday 9 June. We acknowledge this extension will cause further inconvenience to those who have already had their travel plans disrupted, and have been prevented from returning for almost two weeks. New Zealanders will be wanting some certainty around when they can start to plan to come home. The Government has announced plans for the carefully managed commencement of return ‘green flights’ from Melbourne to New Zealand, from Tuesday 8 June at 11:59pm. Travel on such flights will be limited to New Zealand citizens, Australian citizens normally resident in New Zealand, people with humanitarian exemptions and critical workers who are stranded in Victoria. Officials are continuing to work on details of how seats will be allocated if demand for these flights exceeds supply. These details will be provided on the COVID-19 website in coming days. Anyone boarding these flights will need to have a negative pre-departure test taken less than 72 hours before departure. The Nau Mai Rā contact information and health declaration must also be completed before departure to confirm travellers have not been at a location of interest. New Zealand health officials have conducted an assessment of the public health risk and have determined that by 9 June, the risk to public health of people returning from Melbourne will be low. The commencement of flights recognises that by then, people currently in Victoria will have completed 14 days in lockdown.  This reflects the equivalent time which might have been spent in managed isolation in New Zealand. Pause extended Today’s advice from New Zealand public health officials has been that the travel pause should continue. While the source of the outbreak is known and the majority of the cases are linked, there remain some where the epidemiological link is yet to be established. Extensive contact tracing and testing continues, and no cases outside of Victoria have been found. Other states and territories in Australia have imposed restrictions and requirements on travellers from Victoria ranging from excluding travellers who have visited the locations of interest to prohibiting entry of anyone in the State of Victoria. New Zealand officials have assessed the current risk as medium for Melbourne but decreasing for the greater Melbourne area. Additional information for travellers elsewhere in Australia is: Airlines will be asking travellers to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest, and travellers that have been to locations of interest will not be permitted to board the aircraft, from any border in Australia Monitoring of the Victorian cases by New Zealand public health officials will continue. Anyone in New Zealand who visited a location of interest area at the specified time is unable to travel and remains covered by a Section 70 notice has been issued under the Health Act. More information is available on the Ministry of Health website (external link) .  Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Whole genome sequencing has linked the case yesterday to a recent returnee who arrived in Australia from the United States. A household contact of yesterday’s case has today returned a positive test. An epidemiological link has yet to be determined between yesterday’s case and the recent returnee. While the new case announced today is not unexpected as a household contact of yesterday’s case, officials have assessed that with several outstanding unknowns in the situation in Sydney it is safest to pause quarantine-free travel for any flights leaving New South Wales after 11.59pm on 6 May. This will be under constant review. Information about locations of interest visited by the cases is available on the New South Wales health website. Anyone who is now in New Zealand who was at one of the locations of interest in Sydney at the relevant time should isolate and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting tested for COVID-19. Anyone who is in Australia who has been at one of the locations of interest is subject to the requirements of the NSW Government and should not travel to New Zealand. NSW has put in place its own restrictions, details of which are available on the New South Wales Government website. The Government is aware this will cause some disruption to travellers but strongly believes a cautious approach is the best course of action while investigations continue.   Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. New Zealand’s quarantine-free travel with Victoria will be paused while the source of infection of the five cases announced in Melbourne in the last two days is investigated. Victoria has put in place restrictions which come into force tonight, limiting the size of gatherings and requiring the use of face coverings indoors, following confirmation of a fifth locally acquired case of COVID-19. The pause will come into force from 7:59pm NZT and be in place for 72 hours initially. As with previous pauses, it will be under constant review. While the case announced today is not unexpected as a contact of a case announced yesterday, New Zealand officials have assessed that the most cautious option is to pause the travel bubble with Victoria as there are still several unknowns with the outbreak. The Government understands the disruption this will temporarily cause affected passengers. It was a close call but the correct one given the current unknowns. The decision follows the travel bubble framework. Whole genome sequencing has identified that the cases reported yesterday are closely linked to a previous case identified in the community in Wollert on 11 May after leaving managed isolation in South Australia. An epidemiological link has yet to be determined between these cases and there is currently no known link between people in the current outbreak and any of the exposure sites from Wollert. Information about locations of interest are provided on the Victoria Health website and are being updated regularly. In Australia, the 14-day travel restrictions for those who have visited locations of interest means they are ineligible to travel to New Zealand within 14 days from exposure — even with a negative COVID-19 test. Anyone in New Zealand who has been at a location of interest in Melbourne at the specified time should contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 as soon as possible for advice on isolating and testing. Anyone who has visited Melbourne since 11 May should monitor for symptoms and seek advice from Healthline if any symptoms develop. A Section 70 notice has been issued under the Health Act with a number of requirements for any person who attended a location of interest. Section 70 notice (external link) Advice if you visited a location of interest in Victoria, Australia Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Five hundred spaces per fortnight will be allocated in managed isolation facilities over the next 10 months, many for skilled and critical workers to support our economic recovery. The Trans-Tasman bubble has freed up more rooms, allowing us to allocate more places in managed isolation for critical workers. It has given us flexibility to expand our engagement with the rest of the world on a targeted basis and attract skills and people needed to drive our economic recovery, while carefully managing risks of bringing in COVID-19. Fewer New Zealanders are choosing to come home, which gives us the opportunity to focus MIQ more on bringing in skills to support our economic recovery. About 500 MIQ rooms will be made available for ‘large groups’ every fortnight. These include spaces for: The Construction Sector Accord has consulted widely and it will continue to work with industry to prioritise the specific types of skills it needs. They include civil and structural engineers, project managers and a range of specialist technical workers such as hydraulic modellers and mass transit specialists. We’ve also renewed border exceptions for shearers, rural mobile plant machinery operators and essential travellers to and from the Pacific. They will need to book spaces through the online Managed Isolation Allocation System. The dedicated spaces in MIQ and renewed border exceptions will provide our agriculture, horticulture and viticulture sectors with the additional workforce to support our rural communities and help drive New Zealand’s economic recovery from COVID-19. The Government and food and fibre sector have been working hard to mitigate worker shortages by training and upskilling New Zealanders, but there is still the need for additional labour. This decision should see around 2,400 more RSE workers entering New Zealand in time for next summer’s harvest season and pruning this winter. Border class exceptions have also been agreed for 40 more shearers and 125 rural mobile plant machinery operators for the 2021/22 season — subject to completion of sector workforce plans, a model to upskill New Zealanders and agreed wage rates. The Government is taking a number of factors into account when allocating rooms in managed isolation. It's balancing seasonal and strategic skills shortages, seasonal variations of when overseas New Zealanders travel home; and our international obligations, such as providing hundreds of MIQ places for the United States Antarctic Programme over the winter months. Around 20,000 vouchers will be made available in the online Managed Isolation Allocation System over the next three months for New Zealanders wanting to return home. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are also no new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are no new cases to report in recent returnees in our managed isolation facilities, since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. There are two new historical cases detected in managed isolation facilities to report today, as well as a previously reported new case which has now been deemed historical and is not considered infectious. The case was from Nepal, was reported on May 6 and has already been counted as part of our national tally. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are also no new cases to report in recent returnees in our managed isolation facilities, since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one historical case to report in a recent returnee in our managed isolation facilities, since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are five new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one new case to report in a recent returnee in a managed isolation facility since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. There is also one historical case identified in a recent returnee in managed isolation. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are six new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one new case to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities.  There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are three new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are four new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are two new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are no new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one new case and one historical case to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community today. There are four new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since our last update yesterday. Read the update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community today. There are also no new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities. Read the update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)  Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community today. There is one new case to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities, since the last update yesterday. Read the update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are 3 new cases and 3 historical cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Read the update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one new case and three cases being investigated as historical infections to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities, since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Read the update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one new case to report in a recent returnee in our managed isolation facilities, since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are 10 new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update on Sunday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. For the most up-to-date information about our managed isolation and quarantine facilities visit the managed isolation and quarantine website. Get information about: Managed isolation and quarantine website (external link)  New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Immigration NZ has the most up to date information on the border exception criteria and process (external link) Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Managed Isolation and Quarantine (external link) Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. Advice on staying healthy Looking after mental wellbeing (external link) Last updated: 29 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz (external link) as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. On that basis the Ministry does not at this stage recommend any change in Quarantine Free Travel between New Zealand and Australia. Information about locations of interest visited by the case is available on the New South Wales health website. Anyone in New Zealand who has been at any of the locations of interest at the specified times should contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 , self-isolate and be tested as soon as possible. Individuals in Australia who were at a location of interest at the specified times should follow New South Wales health advice regarding isolation and testing. The Ministry will be requesting airlines provide this message to be communicated to anyone flying to New Zealand from New South Wales in the next 24 hours. The Ministry will remain in close contact with its Australian counterparts as the situation evolves. Anyone planning to travel to New South Wales should take into account that advice from health authorities could change at any time, and be prepared for their travel plans to be disrupted. An update is expected tomorrow based on results of additional testing and a further public health assessment by New South Wales Health. Learn more about the locations of interest (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. As of this afternoon, no new locally acquired cases have been identified in NSW since the two cases were identified earlier this week. There is no further information on the epidemiological link between the community cases and the border case to whom they are genomically linked. Information on the range of public health measures in place in NSW is available on the New South Wales Government website. As a precautionary measure, Quarantine Free Travel from  NSW to New Zealand was paused from 11:59pm last night and this pause remains in place. This travel pause prevents anyone from travelling to New Zealand from NSW. It also includes anyone who has been in NSW and who plans to depart for New Zealand from another airport eg Brisbane or Melbourne. The Ministry of Health will continue to closely monitor the situation in NSW this weekend. Another update on the NSW travel pause will be provided tomorrow. So far, 5214 people who have arrived in New Zealand from NSW since Friday last week have been contacted by health authorities and provided with advice. One person has been transferred to a managed isolation facility in Christchurch after they were identified by NSW health authorities as a contact of a case. This person attended a location of interest at the same time as one of the two positive cases recently identified in Sydney. The contact is being tested for COVID-19 and the results will be available by tomorrow. The person is not symptomatic and local public health staff say they have cooperated fully with all requests. Anyone in New Zealand who has been at any of the locations of interest at the specified times should contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453, immediately self-isolate and be tested. Information about locations of interest visited by the cases is available on the NSW health website. A Section 70 notice has been issued under the Health Act with a number of requirements for any person who attended a location of interest. More information is available on the Ministry of Health website.  Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At this stage, the Ministry’s recommendation is that Quarantine Free Travel between New Zealand and the state of Victoria can continue. No further community cases have been identified in Victoria. Health officials in Victoria continue to undertake contact tracing relating to the case announced yesterday. All initial test results from contacts are negative. Information about locations of interest visited by the case is available on the Victoria Health website. Learn more about the locations of interest (external link) Anyone in New Zealand who has been at any of the locations of interest at the specified times should contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on self-isolation and testing as soon as possible. Individuals in Australia who were at a location of interest at the specified times cannot travel for 14 days from exposure and should follow Victoria health advice regarding isolation and testing. The Ministry will remain in close contact with its Australian counterparts as the situation evolves. Anyone planning to travel to Victoria should take into account that advice from health authorities could change at any time and be prepared for their travel plans to be disrupted. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Victoria has put in place a seven-day lockdown from 11:59pm tonight with local residents now required to stay home following confirmation of additional locally-acquired cases of COVID-19, increasing exposure sites and a large and growing number of close contacts. The pause extension is based on the public health risk assessment to further protect New Zealanders. Our public health staff remain in close contact with Victorian authorities about the actions being taken in Melbourne. In Australia, the 14-day travel restrictions for those who have visited locations of interest means they are ineligible to travel to New Zealand within 14 days from exposure – even with a negative COVID-19 test. Find out the locations of interest in Victoria (external link) In addition to the extension, the Ministry of Health is updating advice for those who have been in Melbourne recently. The Director-General of Health is now requiring everyone who has visited the Greater Melbourne area since 20 May to isolate at their place of residence until they receive a negative COVID-19 test result. This is an additional cautious step. The number of locations of interest around Melbourne has grown substantially, making it difficult for visitors to easily keep track. A Section 70 notice has been issued under the Health Act 1956 putting this in force. Read the Section 70 notice (external link) . The Ministry of Health is in the process of contacting all those who have visited Melbourne since 20 May to inform them of the new restrictions. The Ministry of Health has previously contacted everyone who has returned to New Zealand from Melbourne since 11 May and provided advice on checking locations of interest and the actions required. In New Zealand the COVID-19 test is free for New Zealanders and visitors when testing is advised by a health professional. Contact Healthline toll-free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. The situation in Melbourne reinforces the importance of continued and frequent use of the NZ COVID Tracer app in allowing health authorities to quickly trace contacts. More information on the NZ COVID Tracer app. The variant of COVID-19 being found in Melbourne is the B.1.617.1 variant which was first reported in India. It is considered more infectious than the original variant. The typical symptoms to look out for include: Some people may present with atypical symptoms, with or without typical symptoms. These include new onset of: Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. ESR undertakes regular wastewater testing across sites in Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Rotorua, Hamilton and Queenstown as an additional surveillance tool in the fight against COVID-19. Late on Friday 14 May, ESR reported there had been a weak positive test result from a sample taken in Wellington. A follow-up sample yesterday returned a second weak positive result. Based on our experience, it is most likely that the two weak positive results are due to recently recovered cases continuing to shed the virus. In recent weeks three recovered cases who live in the Wellington region have left the Auckland quarantine facility. A further historical case left a Wellington managed isolation facility the same day the second sample was taken. Additionally, it is possible that one or more recently recovered cases from elsewhere could have flown into Wellington. ESR consider a single recovered person shedding the virus may be detected in wastewater. Further wastewater samples in Wellington are being tested over the weekend. As part of our ongoing precautionary approach, and to help rule out undetected COVID-19 infection, the Ministry is encouraging anyone with symptoms, especially if they are in the Wellington region to get tested promptly. This advice also applies to recent visitors to the Wellington region. Anyone who develops symptoms consistent with COVID-19 should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or their doctor, or visit a testing station to get a test. 196-200 Taranaki St Open Sunday 16 May from 10am – 4pm Booking centre operates 9am – 4.30pm Call 0800 885 022  178 Bedford Street, Cannons Creek Open Sunday 16 May from 2pm – 5pm Walk-ins accepted, though bookings preferred Call 0508 672 862  The testing centre opens again on Monday 17 May. Bookings are able to be made today (Sunday) from 1.30pm – 4pm Call 04 576 8619  Wellington Region Primary Health Organisations will extend testing centre hours if required. It’s important to remember the basic public health measures which keep communities protected: Lastly, it’s critically important individuals keep a record of where they’ve been by scanning QR codes or keeping a manual diary of their movements. It can help contact tracers quickly find potential close and casual contacts if there is a positive COVID-19 case. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one new case to report in a recent returnee in our managed isolation facilities, since the Ministry’s last update Friday. Read the latest update from the Ministry of Health (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry has received results from ESR from the wastewater samples collected from the Wellington region. These new samples were collected from Moa Point, Porirua, Hutt Valley and Karori following two earlier samples from Moa Point returning weak positive results. The further samples tested from Moa Point and Hutt Valley did not detect any virus fragments across 15, 16 and 17 May. Weak positive results have been detected in the samples from Porirua and Karori on 16 May. The samples from Porirua and Karori on 15 and 17 May returned negative results – so COVID-19 virus fragments were not detected on those days. Additional samples were collected on Tuesday 18 May and the Ministry expects to be able to provide an update on the results from those tests on Thursday 20 May. There is no risk of infection from COVID-19 in wastewater. The Ministry’s current assessment remains that the weak positive results are likely due to recently recovered cases continuing to shed the virus. However, this is a timely reminder to anyone with symptoms consistent with COVID-19, especially if they are in the Wellington region or have visited recently, to stay at home and promptly call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 about getting a test. Any cases of COVID-19 need to be detected quickly in order to stop the virus spreading in our communities. Everyone in New Zealand should also continue to use the NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth turned on to keep a record of their movements so they can be recalled quickly if needed by contact tracers. Also please keep up the hygiene measures that are critical to stopping the spread of the virus — wear a face covering on public transport, wash your hands, and cough or sneeze into your elbow. Read more advice for the Wellington region Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1-10 of 356 updates 08 Jun 2021 Doses of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will arrive in weekly drops from mid July. 08 Jun 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Jun 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 Jun 2021 The pause in New Zealand’s quarantine-free travel with Victoria will be extended until 11:59pm on Thursday 10 June. 03 Jun 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Jun 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 01 Jun 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 May 2021 The Government is introducing precautionary pre-departure testing for anyone who was in Victoria in the days leading up to the Victoria travel bubble pause. 28 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 May 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 11-20 of 355 updates 27 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 May 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 25 May 2021 New Zealand’s quarantine-free travel with Victoria will be paused while the source of infection of the five cases in Melbourne is investigated. 25 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 May 2021 The Ministry of Health is actively monitoring the situation in Melbourne and remains in close contact with Australian health agencies. 24 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 21 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 May 2021 The Ministry of Health’s current assessment remains that the weak positive results are likely due to recently recovered cases continuing to shed the virus. 19 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 21-30 of 355 updates 19 May 2021 The Government is investing $1.4 billion in New Zealand’s COVID-19 vaccination programme to ensure every New Zealander can receive a free vaccination. 18 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 18 May 2021 A significant COVID-19 workforce milestone has been reached, with the 5000th vaccinator completing specialised training to administer the vaccine. 17 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 16 May 2021 The Ministry of Health today reported there has been a weak positive test result from a sample taken in Wellington. 14 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 May 2021 The Ministry of Health has confirmed that the public health risk to New Zealand remains low following further discussions with Victoria state health officials. 12 May 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 11 May 2021 Visitors to locations of interest in Victoria, Australia, should follow local instructions. 11 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 31-40 of 356 updates 11 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 May 2021 Five hundred spaces per fortnight will be allocated in managed isolation facilities over the next 10 months. 10 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 May 2021 The current travel pause with New South Wales will lift tomorrow – subject to no further significant developments in NSW. 07 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 May 2021 New Zealand remains in close contact with health authorities in New South Wales as their investigation into the two COVID-19 cases in Sydney continues. 06 May 2021 Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales to New Zealand is paused while the source of infection of the two cases in Sydney are investigated. 06 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 May 2021 The Ministry of Health’s current assessment is that the public health risk to New Zealand from the New South Wales community case announced today is low. 05 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 311-320 of 356 updates 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 321-330 of 356 updates 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020  12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 331-340 of 356 updates 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 341-350 of 356 updates 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 351-355 of 355 updates 10 Jun 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 41-50 of 356 updates 04 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 May 2021 Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands will commence on 17 May. 03 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 May 2021 The Ministry of Health is advising airlines that flights between Perth and New Zealand can resume as early as tomorrow following last night’s temporary pause. 01 May 2021 Ministry of Health officials have temporarily paused direct flights from Western Australia to New Zealand following new positive COVID-19 cases in Perth. 30 Apr 2021 Queensland health authorities have advised a change in classification for some passengers who flew from Brisbane to NZ on Thursday 29 April. 30 Apr 2021 The Ministry of Health is continuing to advise passengers who flew from Brisbane to New Zealand last night to monitor their health. 30 Apr 2021 From 11.59pm tonight all work in Managed Isolation and Quarantine facilities and by Government agencies at the border will be undertaken by vaccinated workers. 30 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Apr 2021 Health authorities have asked new arrivals from Brisbane to monitor their health for the next 14 days following a green zone breach at a Brisbane Airport. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 51-60 of 356 updates 29 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Apr 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 27 Apr 2021 New Zealand will lift the travel pause with Western Australia, effective from midday tomorrow. 27 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Apr 2021 The New Zealand Government acknowledges Western Australia’s decision to end its lockdown, with limited restrictions still in place. 24 Apr 2021 There are no new cases in the community to report today. There are two new positive cases of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation since yesterday. 23 Apr 2021 Travel between New Zealand and Western Australia has been paused due to the 3-day lockdown in Perth. 23 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Apr 2021 The Government is taking significant additional steps to make our borders even safer. 23 Apr 2021 Watch the COVID-19 travel media conference with government officials and ministers. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 13 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Last updated: 1 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. We have returned to pre-COVID processes for proactive releases. Please contact the relevant agency for the release of further information relating to COVID-19. To request copies of any of the information, please contact the respective agency through the following contact details: This release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: In addition to the documents released, the Government has made a number of other key pieces of information relating COVID-19 available: Last updated: 20 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Last updated: 9 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are no documents in the “Offshore issues” category for the 9 October 2020 proactive release. Last updated: 9 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Last updated: 15 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. In summer New Zealanders travel around the country, socialise, and go to large events, increasing the possible spread of COVID-19 in the community. During the holidays, this can make any response more challenging — but we’ve got a plan. Our plan outlines how to reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. How we will reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. What you can do to reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases: How we will ready our toolkit. How we would respond if resurgence happens. Community case confirmed and transmission risk assessed. If needed, Ministry of Health COVID-19 Resurgence Plan and National Resurgence Response Plan activated. The location and extent of outbreak risk is assessed. A central government leadership group decides if no further action is required, or monitors the situation, or activates response system. If the response system is activated, a team of central and local government, iwi and community leaders work with local Civil Defence and Emergency Management to manage the outbreak, including: COVID-19 is a tricky virus — we’ve learned a lot from our experience so far, but we all have a part to play in stopping the spread. Our ‘test, trace and isolate’ approach focuses on being able to test lots of people and quickly trace and isolate contacts. We cannot predict where or how a new case might appear in the community, but we’ve done a lot of planning to handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances such as the location or timing, it’s useful to think of 3 scenarios over summer. Keep an eye out for updates on this website and on our Facebook page Unite against COVID-19 Facebook page (external link) Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. Last updated: 16 December 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Alert Level boundaries help stop the spread of the virus. Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited, and you need to check whether you can travel. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Alert Level boundaries help stop the spread of the virus. Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited, and you need to check whether you can travel. Refinements to this map are in development. This map is in beta, please provide any feedback via this form (external link) (external link) . Learn more about what measures we need to take for personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings under each Alert Level. Information about Alert Level 1 Information about Alert Level 2 Information about Alert Level 3 Information about Alert Level 4 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Follow us on social media: We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Get Unite against COVID-19 tiles you can use on your social media. Social media tiles Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) Last updated: 19 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Advice and resources for businesses on keeping workers and others safe from COVID-19, operating safely during different Alert Levels and financial support. Resources for businesses, including how to get your QR code poster, a toolkit with posters for your workplace, and a business helpline. Help to find a job, what industries need people, and career advice. Opportunities are available to study, train or begin an apprenticeship. Help is available if you're experiencing financial distress including help for businesses and foreign nationals stranded in NZ. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Advice and resources for businesses on keeping workers and others safe from COVID-19, operating safely during different Alert Levels and financial support. How to display your QR code poster, and have an alternative contact tracing system with templates. At Alert Level 1, all businesses can operate if they can do so safely. At Alert Level 2, businesses need to reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Help is available to connect employers with people looking for work. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Contact tracing involves collecting the details of all workers, customers, and visitors who visit your workplace. If a case of COVID-19 is identified, the Ministry of Health will use this information to identify people who may have been exposed to the virus. Contact tracing slows the spread of COVID-19. Contact tracing helps keep you, your whānau and community safe by:  All workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This applies at all Alert Levels. Encourage everyone - workers, customers and visitors to your workplace to sign in using the QR code. Make sure it’s done every day, including weekends and after hours. Get your QR code poster  At Alert Level 2 and higher, you legally must have an alternative system for people who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. You may be contacted if your business is a potential location of interest. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need to record people who work on the premises. You do not need an alternative system at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. There are different systems and processes you can use to keep a record. These include: We recommend that records include the person’s full name, phone number, and the date and time they enter. Keep contact tracing records for at least 30 days. You should only collect information if it is necessary for contact tracing. It’s unnecessary to collect other personal information like identity verification documents or number plates. When collecting people's information, it is your responsibility to: Store personal details in a way that protects everyone's privacy. Keep previous records out of sight. If personal information is not secured properly, it can expose people to unwelcome contact, fraud or even identity theft. It’s also a breach of the Privacy Act. We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. For example: This information is being collected to assist in the management of COVID-19. It will be given to the Ministry of Health and/or the District Health Board on request if it is required for contact tracing purposes. We will not use it for any other purpose, and will destroy it after 30 days. It will be kept here at [name of the establishment]. You have a right to access and correct any information we hold about you. You can use these templates as your alternative system. Print whichever template suits your workplace best — you can use both if you like. This is a page of individual ballot entries that visitors can fill out and put in a ballot box. You will need to cut out each entry for visitors to write on, and have your own ballot box to put them in. Find out how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases: How contact tracing works Last updated: 30 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. We all have a part to play in keeping ourselves and others safe from COVID-19. Make sure: At Alert Level 1, all public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. You can help your customers get back into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we'll be. Encourage workers to turn on Bluetooth tracing. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people we've been near. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Contact tracing at your workplace Bluetooth tracing If your workers are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, ask them to stay home and get health advice. They can call: Support workers to get tested. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you are eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Your workers should tell you if they: If workers have COVID-19 like symptoms, they shouldn’t come back to work until they have either recovered or have been tested and cleared from having COVID-19 and are no longer symptomatic. Regularly check in with your workers who are unwell to make sure they can return to work safely. Guidance for workplaces that have a case of COVID-19 (external link) Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. Display signs at entrances to let people know they should not enter if they feel unwell. Set up flexible work arrangements so workers do not feel pressured to come into work when they are unwell. Flexible work arrangements can include working from home, working from another location, or changing the hours of work. Workers may also feel anxious about returning to work after they have been unwell. Support workers to look after their mental health and wellbeing while they work away from the office. Looking after mental health and wellbeing during COVID-19 (external link) Encourage workers to keep up hygiene practises by: How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Public health guidance on cleaning practises for businesses (external link) Physical distancing means keeping a safe distance from others. There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. You can help reduce the risk of infection from COVID-19 through physical distancing by: Always discuss any changes with your workers first. Last updated: 2 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities.  At Alert Level 2, businesses can have customers on their premises. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help . Retail businesses, including malls, markets and takeaway shops legally must: There is no limit on the number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Public facilities include: There is no limit on the number of people that can be inside a public facility, if people can safely be 1 metre apart. All public facilities legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each  location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. Event facilities include: Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This may mean the facility needs to have less than 100 people in a defined space. All event facilities legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each  location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars legally must: While we recommend each table having a single server, each server can cover multiple tables. People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Businesses can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. This include personal keep cups and in-house reusable coffee cup schemes. If you decide to allow resuable cups, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. Advice for eating out and getting takeaways safely Advice for going out to a bar or night club A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place including: You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other resources Business.govt.nz has sector specific information for businesses that can operate during different Alert Levels Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe has guidance on operating safely at all alert levels, including setting up a COVID-19 safety plan. Your COVID-19 safety plan (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) Last updated: 27 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities.  At Alert Level 3, businesses should self-assess their ability to meet the public health guidelines to decide if they can operate safely. If your business requires close physical contact it cannot open. If you do decide to operate, make sure you have a plan for keeping your workers, your customers and the community safe from COVID-19. Operating safely – what you need to think about (external link) Have ways for customers to pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. We also recommend having contactless delivery or pick-up methods. For retailers, manufacturers and the service industries, if you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you do not need it now. Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations can open at Alert Level 3. Businesses that provide necessities should: Businesses can sell prepared food and drinks, but we recommend encouraging customers to consume them off-site. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Retail shops can only open to customers for delivery and non-contact collection of goods and prepared food at the door (including the doors of businesses located inside malls). Customers cannot enter your store to browse products, or consume food and drinks. You can decide if customers can use reusable cups and containers. If you do allow reusable cups, we recommend you follow food safety requirements. At Alert Level 3, most building and construction work can continue. COVID-19: Building and construction sector guidance (external link) All goods can be delivered, if it is contactless. Alcohol can be delivered if the business has an off-licence. WorkSafe advice for delivery drivers (external link) You can provide certain services in home, if you can meet physical distancing requirements. However, we recommend not having house cleaning. Public facilities such as swimming pools, gyms, libraries and museums cannot open. If your workers have to travel during Alert Level 3, they will need to have proof that they are allowed to cross an Alert Level boundary. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other resources Business.govt.nz has sector specific information for businesses that can operate during different Alert Levels Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe has guidance on operating safely at all alert levels, including setting up a COVID-19 safety plan. Your COVID-19 safety plan (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) Last updated: 27 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you need help hiring new employees, Work and Income can help. You can advertise jobs for free and easily access work-ready people who are wanting to work. Whether you’re a small, medium or large business, or looking to recruit locally or nationally, Work and Income can connect you with candidates who have skills to suit all kinds of jobs. List your job vacancies for free or talk to them about tailoring a recruitment plan to meet the needs of your business. Advertise your job vacancies for free (external link) Information about Work and Income’s recruitment services (external link) Many initiatives are underway to connect employers in a range of in-demand industries with people looking for work. More information on in-demand industries The Mana in Mahi programme provides young people with on-the-job training so they get paid while working towards an industry qualification. Businesses can receive funding and support to recruit, train and retain employees. To take part in the Mana in Mahi programme, your business will need to: To apply, contact Work and Income on 0800 778 008 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) He Poutama Rangatahi supports rangatahi aged 15 to 24 to connect with employers and get into long-term employment. To be eligible, your business will need to do the following: Find out more about He Poutama Rangatahi on the Provincial Growth Fund website (external link) The Cadetships programme supports employers to develop, mentor, train and grow full-time permanent Māori staff to take on more senior roles within an organisation. Your business could receive up to $10,000 to help develop a cadet for at least 6 months in a permanent role. To apply, your business will need to meet 1 of these requirements: Find out more about the Cadetships programme on the Te Puni Kokiri website (external link)  Last updated: 16 August 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Help is available if you're experiencing financial distress including help for businesses and foreign nationals stranded in NZ. Find out what financial support you could access. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who cannot return home and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support. Information to help you access or pay for accommodation. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Funding is available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: Apply for funding by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link)  Advice is available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) The Community Capability and Resilience Fund (CCRF) is available to community groups for initiatives that support the rebuild and recovery from COVID-19. The CCRF builds on the success of the Community Awareness and Preparedness Grant Fund (CAP Fund), which provided immediate support to communities during the COVID-19 lockdown. The fund will be targeted towards initiatives that support priority groups, which include: More information, including the application form, is available on the Ministry of Social Development website. Community Capability and Resilience Fund (external link) Last updated: 30 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Last updated: 13 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be in place if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. Wage subsidies support employers and self-employed people to keep paying employees and protect jobs affected by Alert Level changes. Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps businesses directly affected when there’s an increase to Alert Level 2 or higher for a week or more. It helps to cover wages and fixed costs. Applications for the 14 February and 28 February Alert Level increases have now closed.  Information about the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment (external link) The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses and self-employed people to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This includes employees on casual contracts. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. You can apply for it once for each eligible employee in any 30-day period. However, you can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells them to get another test. Your business should encourage employees to call Healthline or talk to their doctor if they are unwell. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons and cannot work from home. If your employees have been advised to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme.  Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If your employees need to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment is available. Your small or medium-sized business may be eligible for a Business Finance Guarantee Scheme loan. These loans can support operating cashflow and capital assets and projects related to, responding to or for recovering from the impacts of COVID-19. Participating lenders can provide to eligible businesses: Participating banks and non-banks, for example building societies, can lend outside of their normal lending criteria. If you borrow from a bank, you could borrow up to $5 million for a term of up to 5 years. If you borrow from a non-bank, you could borrow up to $3 million for a term of up to 5 years. The scheme is supported by the Government, which takes up to 80% of the scheme loan’s default risk. No personal guarantee is required. Participating banks and non-banks make all lending decisions. You must still pay the loan back, with interest, as you would usually. Find out if your business is eligible, and how to apply (external link) Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) Support will be available to employers of first-year and second-year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost initiative, and how to apply (external link) Last updated: 13 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be in place if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. Wage subsidies support employers and self-employed people to keep paying employees and protect jobs affected by Alert Level changes. Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment.  As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There was a freeze on rent increases which meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants at the Tenancy Services website (external link) The mortgage repayment deferral scheme meant New Zealand’s retail banks were able to defer repayments for some mortgages. This scheme ended on 31 March 2021. If you need advice about your mortgage repayments, talk to your bank about your options. All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) Support is available for anyone who is a Close and Casual contact of a COVID-19 case. Work and Income provides a range of financial support to help workers affected by COVID-19 as Alert Levels change. Find out how Work and Income may be able to help you, even if you’re working. Download a PDF for information about support for Close and Casual Contacts of a COVID-19 case [PDF, 441 KB] Last updated: 13 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you have a temporary visa and cannot support yourself or return home due to COVID-19, you may be able to get an Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help with your basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You may be able to get the Emergency Benefit if you: You can apply for the Emergency Benefit until 31 August 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) Last updated: 1 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Help to find a job, what industries need people, and career advice. Advice on how to search for jobs and how to advertise jobs if you’re an employer. Information on the jobs available in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Practical advice to help you look for a new job or retrain. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Careers.govt.nz has practical, useful advice if your job has been impacted by COVID-19. Careers.govt.nz can help with: Careers.govt.nz has tools and resources to help kick-start your career or to help you consider study or retraining options if you have been impacted by COVID-19: Know Your CV — Careers.govt.nz (external link) You can find detailed information about jobs you may be interested in, including what the job involves, salary expectations, job opportunities and length of training required. Search for jobs you may be interested in (external link) Careers.govt.nz also has a list of job vacancy and recruitment websites that have roles across a range of industries, so you can find your next challenge. List of job vacancy and recruitment website (external link) To talk to someone at Careers.govt.nz, call 0800 601 301 from 8:30am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. They can help you with: You can also talk to someone online. Chat online about your career options (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 8 June 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Many people's circumstances have changed due to COVID-19. If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, now is a good time to look for a new challenge. Many industries need people to keep New Zealand moving. If you are looking for work, you can create a job finder profile on the Keep New Zealand Working website. This site can connect you to businesses that need work-ready people to help support New Zealand through COVID-19. Create a job finder profile (external link) You can search from a range of available jobs across the country from the Keep New Zealand Working website. Search job vacancies (external link) If you need help hiring additional staff, you can advertise jobs for free to access work-ready people easily. Advertise jobs for free (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) There are many jobs available at the moment in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Information about in-demand industries Last updated: 23 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are many roles involved in producing New Zealand’s food and fibre, which are essential to helping New Zealand through the recovery. These include: There are many opportunities to join the sector. In the next 5 years we need 50,000 people with a diverse range of interests, experiences and backgrounds. Opportunities range from seasonal jobs through to long-term careers. GrowingNZ can help with career advice in the sector. It also lists available roles across New Zealand. GrowingNZ career advice (external link) New Zealand is a large provider of fruit and vegetables to the world. This is what the horticulture sector supplies. New Zealand horticulture leads the way in healthy, sustainable food production — developing technology, growing and harvesting food, designing new products and selling them to the world. The GoHort website can help you work out if a career in horticulture is right for you. It has information about careers in the science, business and technology sectors as well as working on an orchard. The GoHort JobBoard showcases the career opportunities currently available in the horticultural sector. You can list a job if you are an employer and find a job if you are looking for a new role. GoHort JobBoard (external link) Right now the dairy sector needs motivated and passionate people to work on dairy farms. There are many roles and career pathways with self-employed options available. Many of your existing skills may be transferable to a dairy farming role. Dairy sector opportunities include working: You can find out which dairy sector careers, including on-farm roles, would best suit your skills and experience on the Go Dairy website. Go Dairy (external link) Free training is available for people who have lost their jobs due to COVID-19. The 3 week course includes 1 week online and 2 practical weeks. Free Farm Ready Training (external link) Forestry roles involve much more than growing and harvesting plantation forests. Careers include: There are opportunities to suit your needs, from long-term positions to seasonal work. Forestry Careers NZ has a range of information on the roles available in the industry, career expectations, and skills and qualifications needed. Forestry Careers NZ (external link) Last updated: 30 June 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Resources for businesses, including how to get your QR code poster, a toolkit with posters for your workplace, and a business helpline. Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Download and print these resources — including posters, signs and contact tracing registers. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 for the North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for the South Island. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, modifying and terminating employment agreements, and vaccinations. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) Vaccines and the workplace (external link) COVID-19 vaccinations — Q+As for employers (external link)  Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Last updated: 12 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster. You should also encourage everyone who enters your premise to scan the QR code with the NZ COVID Tracer app. There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your locations. The form will ask you for your NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code: you do not need these if you're creating a QR code for personal reasons. You'll need: Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of locations or do not have a New Zealand driver licence, use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. Use this template if you do not have a New Zealand driver licence or you have a large number of locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) If you would like to be sent your QR code poster again so you can print more copies, email the NZ COVID Tracer support team at help@covidtracer.min.health.nz If you have the email address that the poster was sent to, and/or the business or service name printed on the poster, that will help the team find it for you. All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This legal requirement applies at Alert Level 1 and higher. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. Each location legally must display their poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they've been. This includes buses, trains, aircraft, ferries and ride-share vehicles. QR codes are not mandatory for public transport services that have ticketing processes that collect contact information for every passenger. Depending on the operator, this could be airlines and inter-city buses. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a QR code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. While displaying a QR code is not mandatory in these situations, we still encourage community organisations to display a QR code. This includes: Clubs that operate under section 21 of the Sale and Supply of Alcohol Act 2012 must still display a QR code. You can also print off QR codes for private events such as social gatherings at your home. This is not mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. You need to display your QR code poster at all Alert Levels. Display the poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You can also place some posters inside, especially where people walk past without creating an obstacle. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. We recommend you: Do not: If you need help generating your QR code posters or have questions about NZ COVID Tracer: How to download NZ COVID Tracer app To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. How contact tracing works Last updated: 12 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Fees-free vocational education and training is available through the Targeted Training and Apprenticeships Fund. There is no need to apply as fees are paid directly to providers by the Tertiary Education Commission. Funding is available for vocational programmes in targeted industries and for apprenticeships in all industries. Starting from 1 July, the vocational programmes initially funded are in the following areas: Find the list of supported training on the Tertiary Education Commission website (external link) Fees will be covered from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2022. If you started a course earlier in the year, you may be eligible for a partial refund if your course continues past 1 July 2020. Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Contact Connected to get help to choose the education or training you need if you're starting your work journey or looking to retrain. Call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) The Mana in Mahi programme can kick start your career, giving you on-the-job training so you get paid while working towards an industry qualification. You can also receive support getting the things you need to get started like clothes and tools. To apply, you can contact Work and Income on 0800 779 009 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) The Hardship Fund is available for students facing financial difficulty, including as a result of COVID-19. You can receive grants to cover certain costs, and loans if you are waiting on money from things like scholarship payments, research grants, international bank transfers, etc. The Hardship Fund can help with a range of issues, including: To apply, contact your tertiary education provider. Find out more about the Hardship Fund on the Tertiary Education Commission’s website (external link) There is renewed support for tertiary education learners whose training or education has been disrupted. Applications have re-opened for the Technology Access Fund for Learners following recent changes in COVID-19 Alert Levels. The fund is managed by the Tertiary Education Commission. The fund aims to help tertiary education organisations support learners to continue to access tertiary education and training disrupted by COVID-19. More information about the fund and how tertiary education organisations can apply (external link) Last updated: 7 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. You might be interested in Your DHB is organising vaccinations for your region. Find out when you can get vaccinated and how to book. We’re rolling out the vaccine in stages. Learn about our plan, who's in each group and get useful vaccine resources. How COVID-19 vaccines are developed and approved, vaccine side effects and safety monitoring. Last updated 2 June 2021 How many people have been vaccinated in New Zealand so far. 432,509 First dose administered 235,606 Second dose administered When you get vaccinated, you’re not just protecting yourself. You’re also doing your bit by reducing the risk of passing on COVID-19 to your whānau, friends and community.       Last updated: 26 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out when you can get a vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments. Find advice about the COVID-19 vaccine for specific groups and health conditions. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccinations. Answer these questions to find out which group you’re in. When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Different regions will start at different times. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. What happens if the job you do needs to be carried out by a worker who has been vaccinated against COVID-19. Find out what to do if you need to travel overseas on compassionate grounds or for reasons of national significance. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can apply for an early vaccine on compassionate grounds if you need to travel overseas to: You may be eligible for an early vaccine if you need to travel overseas to: The relevant agency or association will apply on your behalf. If you are travelling overseas before 31 August , you can apply online for an early vaccine through the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an early vaccine (external link) Last updated: 21 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. We’ll confirm your contact details through our records and your employer. A health worker from your regional DHB will then contact you about making an appointment to get vaccinated. You can book your vaccination at the same time as your regular testing schedule. When you get an appointment, you'll also be sent a link to an online form to provide details of the people you live with. If you’re not contacted to make an appointment, talk to your employer. When a border or MIQ worker receives their appointment, they'll be sent a link to an online form. They can use this to enter the details of the people they live with (their household contacts). These people will be contacted about getting vaccinated after the rollout to border and MIQ workers has started. If this doesn't happen within 1 week, phone Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 to confirm if their details are in the system. If you're a frontline healthcare worker, you can expect an invitation to be vaccinated from your employer, district health board (DHB) or health provider. If you have not received an invitation yet, speak to your employer or contact your DHB. All other people in Group 2 can find more information about when they will be vaccinated, and how appointments will be made on their DHB's website. Vaccine rollout information by DHB If you’re in Group 3, you can expect an invitation to be vaccinated from your local DHB from late May . There are about 1.7 m illion people in Group 3 , so you may not receive an invitation immediately. Different regions will start at different times. Everyone aged 16 and over will have the opportunity to get vaccinated. No one will miss out. You will be able to get more information on your local DHB ’s website once vaccinations for Group 3 start. Vaccine rollout information by DHB We'll provide information about appointments for this group closer to the time they can be vaccinated. The actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. Getting 2 doses of the vaccine is important to give you the best protection. To book your second vaccination, contact your local district health board (DHB). If you can’t make your appointment, reschedule as soon as possible. Vaccine rollout information by DHB What to expect when you get your vaccinations Find out when you can get a vaccine Vaccine rollout groups Last updated: 3 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Each district health board (DHB) around New Zealand is managing the rollout of the vaccine in their area. Exactly how and when people are contacted may differ between regions. If you're not sure which district health board (DHB) provides services for your area, check the Ministry of Health website. Ministry of Health — My DHB (external link) Vaccinations will be available at a range of locations, including pop-up centres, GPs, Māori and Pacific healthcare providers, mobile clinics and community clinics. Vaccine rollout groups Find out when you can get a vaccine Last updated: 31 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccinations. Answer these questions to find out which group you’re in. If you're 16 or over, answer these questions to find out when you can get a vaccine. Your result will tell you which group you’re probably in — Group 1, 2, 3, or 4 — depending on your age and situation. These dates are estimates — the actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. We’ll have enough of the Pfizer vaccine for everyone to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. Find out more about our vaccine rollout The Pfizer vaccine will be available to everyone aged 16 and over. Find out what to do if you’re pregnant or breastfeeding, are getting another vaccination, or have a health condition. Who can get a vaccination When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Booking your vaccination appointments  Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If an employer thinks particular work needs to be done only by vaccinated workers, on health and safety grounds, they must first do a COVID-19 exposure risk assessment. This assessment needs to be done in collaboration with workers, unions and other representatives. A risk assessment will need to consider: WorkSafe has more detailed guidance on risk assessments. Assessing whether a specific role needs to be performed by a vaccinated worker (external link) Existing employment law obligations still apply. This includes: The Government has introduced a new requirement that all work in MIQ settings must be carried out by people who have been vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination requirements for workers in high-risk border settings If you and your employer disagree about whether particular work needs to be done only by a vaccinated worker, you can access the Early Resolution Service. This offers a free and informal process to try and work through issues. Early Resolution Service (external link) Your employer can’t share information about your vaccination status with anyone, unless they have your permission to do so, or there’s an exception under the Privacy Act. You don’t have to tell your employer if you’ve been vaccinated. If you choose not to get vaccinated, you don’t have to tell them why. If you are in a role that needs to be done only by a vaccinated worker but choose not to disclose your vaccination status, your employer can treat you as unvaccinated, but they’ll have to tell you that’s what they’re doing. COVID-19 vaccination and employment — Employment NZ (external link) Last updated: 5 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. From 1 May 2021, any MIQ worker or government official who is not vaccinated will not be allowed into high-risk border or MIQ facilities, unless a specific exception applies. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 requires all work in MIQ settings to be carried out by people who have been vaccinated against COVID-19. It also requires all government officials to be vaccinated before carrying out work in other high-risk border settings. The Vaccination Order is intended to prevent, or reduce, the outbreak or spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The Government wants to ensure we have every possible measure in place to protect the people, communities, and workplaces of New Zealand from COVID-19. COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (external link) While vaccination is not mandatory and individuals are free to choose whether or not they wish to receive the vaccine, only those who have been vaccinated will be able to undertake work in MIQ settings and only vaccinated government officials will be able to undertake work in other high-risk border settings. From 1 May 2021, any MIQ worker or government official who is not vaccinated will not be allowed into high-risk border or MIQ facilities, unless a specific exception applies. Any unvaccinated government officials or MIQ workers who have previously been assigned to work in these settings will need to discuss alternative options with their employers. They will not be able to continue to work in high-risk environments until they are vaccinated. An unvaccinated person may be permitted to enter and carry out work in a place covered by this Order, if the work is unanticipated, necessary and time-critical and cannot be carried out by a person who is vaccinated; and must be carried out to prevent the place from ceasing operations. Exceptions in these circumstances may only be granted by the responsible government chief executive. A person who is not vaccinated may enter a place without approval if they need to enter to preserve or protect a person’s life, health or safety in an emergency; or are authorised or required to by law. A breach of these requirements by employers or affected workers is an infringement offence for the purposes of section 26(3) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. (Liable to an infringement fee of $300; or a fine imposed by a court, not exceeding $1000). Border and MIQ workers who have not yet received their vaccinations will be given priority when scheduling their appointments. To organise a vaccination for yourself or eligible staff, contact your local DHB directly. Contact your local DHB to organise a vaccination You can also book through the Ministry of Health using a dedicated email address. Employers can use this to submit contact lists for any staff who are not yet in the system, and workers can also do the same for themselves or their close contacts. Book a vaccination for a worker in a high-risk border setting Initially, current workers will be considered vaccinated if they have had one dose of the vaccine. However, all workers performing duties in high-risk settings must have had two doses of the vaccine before 5 June 2021. New workers covered by the Order will need to have their first dose before starting work, and then have their second dose within 35 days from starting work. With an approved and effective vaccine now available, it is critical that we do everything we can to protect our communities from COVID-19.  Employment New Zealand provides in formation to help you understand your rights and responsibilities about v ­­accines in the workplace. Learn more about v ­­accines and the workplace (external link) Last updated: 30 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. When and how you book your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Booking your COVID-19 vaccination appointments You may need to wait before getting other vaccines (like the flu or MMR vaccine). Getting other vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You'll be asked: Note: If you're in Group 1, you will be asked to give written consent. This was the original consent process. The vaccine and your privacy (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You’ll need to stay for at least 20 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you’re okay. We'll record information about your COVID-19 immunisations in our COVID Immunisation Register. You’ll be given a card that shows the date you've been vaccinated and the batch number. Getting 2 doses of the vaccine, at least 21 days apart, is important to give you the best protection. Check your second vaccination is booked and keep a note of where and when it will take place. When your vaccine appointment is confirmed, you’ll get instructions on what to do if you need to reschedule your appointment for any reason. If you’re unwell and can’t make your appointment, you’ll need to reschedule it as soon as possible. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 100 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine — simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] After your immunisation [PDF, 86 KB] COVID-19 vaccines privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] The Pfizer vaccine is the only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. We have secured 10 million doses – enough for 5 million people to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. How the vaccine works — Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) Other vaccines we've agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Vaccination side effects You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. Getting 2 doses of the vaccine is important to give you the best protection. To book your second vaccination, contact your local district health board (DHB). If you can’t make your appointment, reschedule as soon as possible. Vaccine rollout information by DHB Last updated: 3 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. We’ll have enough of the Pfizer vaccine for everyone to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. You’ll be offered the vaccine if you’re aged 16 or over — it doesn’t matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Find out when you can get a vaccine People under the age of 16 are not able to get the Pfizer vaccine at this stage. The Pfizer vaccine has been shown to be highly effective and safe in people aged over 65 years. If you’ve had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your vaccinator. You shouldn’t get the Pfizer vaccine if you have a history of anaphylaxis: What’s in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) If you’re unwell on the day of your appointment or have a fever over 38°C, it’s important to delay your COVID-19 vaccination until you’re feeling better. For information about when you should get your flu, MMR and pregnancy vaccinations if you're also getting a COVID-19 vaccination, visit the Ministry of Health website. Getting other vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) Consistently high efficacy of over 92% was observed in the clinical trials for the Pfizer vaccine across age, sex, race, ethnicity, and people with underlying medical conditions. You can get early access to the COVID-19 vaccine if you're aged 16 years and over, and meet one or more of the following criteria: Eligibility criteria for a publicly funded influenza vaccine (external link) (external link) Healthy weight BMI calculator (external link) The Ministry of Health website has more advice about getting vaccinated for people who are: Vaccine advice for specific groups and health conditions — Ministry of Health (external link) Find out when you can get a vaccine How to book your vaccinations Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) Last updated: 26 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 vaccine is free, and available to everyone aged 16 years and over in Aotearoa. The COVID-19 vaccine is free, voluntary and available to everyone in Aotearoa aged 16 and over. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccinations. Learn more about who’s in each group. Download and share useful information about getting a COVID-19 vaccination and the vaccine rollout in New Zealand. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The COVID-19 vaccine is free, voluntary and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over. It doesn't matter what your visa or citizenship status is. We will not use any information collected for immigration purposes. People under the age of 16 are not included for now. This is because the vaccines have not been tested on this age group yet. Vaccine advice for specific groups and health conditions We’re rolling out the vaccine in stages. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine groups. First, we’ll protect those most at risk of catching COVID-19 in their workplace. This will reduce the risk of future outbreaks and lockdowns. Next, we’ll vaccinate people most at risk of getting seriously sick or dying if they get the virus. Finally, we’ll vaccinate everyone else in Aotearoa aged 16 and over. The vaccine is free for everyone and no one will miss out. Find out when you can get a vaccine If you need to travel overseas on compassionate grounds or for reasons of national significance, you may be able to apply for an early vaccination. How to apply for an early vaccination Your local district health board (DHB) is managing vaccinations in your area. When and how you book will depend on which group you're in. Different regions will start at different times. Vaccinations will be available at a range of locations, including pop-up centres, GPs, Māori and Pacific healthcare providers, mobile clinics and community clinics. How to book your vaccination appointments The COVID-19 vaccine is free to everyone in New Zealand. Do not share your bank details with anyone offering you the vaccine for a fee. COVID-19 vaccine scams The Pfizer vaccine is the only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. We have secured 10 million doses – enough for 5 million people to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. How the vaccine works — Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) Other vaccines we've agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) (external link) New Zealand's medicines safety authority Medsafe assesses applications for all new medicines. This includes vaccines. For Medsafe to approve a vaccine for use in New Zealand, it must be confident that it: The Pfizer vaccine is highly effective if people have both doses. What this means is that if you do catch COVID-19, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill or transmit the virus to others. Studies have shown that 95% of people who received both doses of the vaccine were protected against getting seriously ill. Vaccine development and safety Vaccine effectiveness and protection — Ministry of Health (external link) When you get vaccinated, you’re not just protecting yourself. You’re also doing your bit by reducing the risk of passing on COVID-19 to your whānau, friends and community. Our plan is to: While all health providers are responsible for vaccinating the Māori and Pacific people in their communities, we know Māori and Pacific providers hold trusted relationships with the whānau they serve. We are partnering with Māori and Pacific providers so they can deliver tailored and targeted approaches to their communities as part of the wider COVID-19 vaccination programme rollout. Vaccine strategy and planning (external link) We’re looking for extra vaccinators to support the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. If you’re a retired health professional or not currently working in the health workforce and want to volunteer, visit the Ministry of Health's website to register your interest. Register your interest in being a vaccinator (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up for our COVID-19 vaccine newsletter COVID-19 vaccine data and statistics (external link) Last updated: 1 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. We've translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 774 KB] Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout and how to get your vaccination. Our COVID-19 vaccination plan [PDF, 780 KB] An information sheet with answers to your most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine and its safety and side effects. COVID-19 vaccine – your questions answered [PDF, 139 KB] COVID-19 vaccine – your safety and side effects questions answered [PDF, 138 KB] An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 100 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 634 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 86 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A one-page poster outlining the COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan for New Zealand. This includes four groups, who the groups include and why, when and where these groups will get vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [PDF, 184 KB] A booklet detailing New Zealand's vaccine plan to support the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This covers information on vaccine safety, access, equity and supply. COVID-19 vaccine – protecting Aotearoa [PDF, 403 KB] A brochure covering the different groups as part of the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This includes when and how the groups will be vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccine – when will I get the vaccine? [PDF, 685 KB] A graph estimating the volumes and timing of our COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This illustration shows planned DHB vaccine dose delivery to 30 June 2021. COVID-19 vaccine – estimated volumes and timing of vaccine rollout [PDF, 435 KB] An information sheet specifically for border and MIQ workers. Information on the rollout, who household contacts are, the vaccine protection and effectiveness, how the vaccines work and its safety. Advice about the COVID-19 vaccine – for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 110 KB] An information sheet specifically for border and MIQ workers – advice about the vaccination process. Advice about the COVID-19 vaccination process – for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 89 KB] An information sheet specifically for people living with border and MIQ workers. COVID-19 vaccine – for people who live with border and MIQ workers [PDF, 121 KB] Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 31 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine rollout groups. People at greater risk will get vaccinated first. Answer these questions to find out when you can get a vaccine The first people to be vaccinated are people working at the border or in MIQ, and the people they live with (household contacts). People in Group 1 can get early access to a vaccine because border and MIQ workers are most at risk of contracting COVID-19. Vaccinating this group first will also potentially reduce the risk of transmission in the community. You are in this group if you: Find out if you are in the Counties Manukau DHB area (external link) (external link) (external link) (external link) People in Group 2 can get early access to a vaccine because: Sign up for Group 2 updates (external link) You’re in this group if you are: People in Group 3 can get early access to a vaccine because: Sign up for Group 3 updates (external link) You’re in this group if you’re aged 16 or over. Group 4 are being vaccinated from the end of July because, before we vaccinate the wider population, we need to protect the people who are: Everyone will have the opportunity to protect themselves, their whānau and our communities. Sign up for Group 4 updates (external link) The actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Booking your vaccination appointments Who can get a COVID-19 vaccination Apply for an early vaccination Last updated: 1 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Learn about how COVID-19 vaccines are developed and approved, side effects and safety monitoring. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand must comply with international and local standards for quality, safety and effectiveness. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. How to know if what you’re reading is reliable and where to find the facts online. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Creating the COVID-19 vaccines took a global effort, but the world united to take on the challenge. And we didn’t start from scratch — researchers were able to use their knowledge of other coronaviruses and vaccine development. The vaccines have been developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Vaccine clinical trials and testing — Ministry of Health (external link) Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It evaluates applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. Medsafe will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. The Pfizer vaccine has been provisionally approved (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it’s been formally approved after a thorough assessment, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it’s used. It will assess ongoing data and reporting, such as large clinical trials across the world and reporting by healthcare professionals and people who have received the vaccine. Vaccine safety monitoring process — Medsafe (external link) Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 vaccines — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Vaccine evaluation and approval process — Medsafe (external link) Last updated: 21 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There’s a lot of information on social media — it’s overwhelming and hard to know what’s reliable. Here are 5 tips to help you make sure what you read online is from a reliable source: Anyone on the internet can publish anything they like. It's important to understand the goals of that publication. You can often learn about a website's background by reviewing its 'About' page. The sources of an article are a strong reflection of an article's quality. If the article doesn't list sources, ask yourself — where is this information coming from? If the article does list sources, check them and make sure you believe they are credible. You can usually find this at the top or bottom of the page. Recently written articles are more likely to be trustworthy than outdated articles. Poor grammar and multiple spelling mistakes could be a flag that the information you are reading is not trustworthy. Reputable publishers put a lot of effort into making sure their articles are easy to read. If the page you are on has advertising that blocks you from reading the article, or formatting that makes it difficult to read, then those are signs the publication is not trustworthy. The Pfizer vaccine is free for everyone in New Zealand. Do not share your bank details with anyone offering you the vaccine for a fee. Report a COVID-19 vaccine scam The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system, and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. COVID-19 vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) IMAC is a nationwide organisation based at the School of Population Health at The University of Auckland. It provides independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research about vaccine-preventable diseases the benefits and risks of immunisation. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) WHO is an agency of the United Nations, and is responsible for international public health. COVID-19 vaccines — WHO (external link) Karawhiua is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. It's led by Te Puni Kōkiri (Ministry for Māori Development), co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite Against COVID-19 teams. karawhiua.nz (external link) Misinformation and scams Last updated: 21 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects 1—2 days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects don’t last long, and won’t stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Uncommon and rare side effects — Ministry of Health (external link) You can: If you have concerns or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your family doctor or other health professional, or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you’ve had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. If you’ve had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you’re okay. The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. Report your side effects to CARM (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand (external link) Vaccine side effects and reactions — Ministry of Health (external link) Getting vaccinated for COVID-19 — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Last updated: 21 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, how fast they appear and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice on getting medical advice, flu vaccinations, health services and getting medical care if your visa has expired. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Symptoms include: These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: A health professional will advise whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting if you have any symptoms. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Information about testing for COVID-19 Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. People can catch the virus through their eyes, nose or mouth. Scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. People may get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that have been touched by an infected person, or if droplets have settled there. People could also get infected if droplets remain in the air for a few minutes, or longer. While it is unlikely people will get infected this way, the risk becomes higher: That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, at any time. Last updated: 21 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. Community-based testing for COVID-19 is available through district health boards and public health units across the country. What to expect if you test positive for COVID-19, including going into quarantine, what to expect when you're there and when you can safely return home. Casual and Casual Plus contacts have been at the same place at the same time as someone with COVID-19. Find advice on what you and your household members need to do. Close Contacts may live or work with someone who has COVID-19. Find advice on what you and your household members need to do. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Call Healthline if you get symptoms or need advice. Phone 0800 358 5453 If you have difficulty breathing, call an ambulance. Phone 111 Casual Plus Contacts have been in the same place (location of interest) at the same time as someone with COVID-19. Casual Plus Contacts are at lower risk than Close Contacts. Information and advice for casual plus contacts will be on the Ministry of Health’s website or through the NZ COVID Tracer app alerts. Sometimes Public Health or the location of interest may contact you directly. The actions you need to take will depend on your level of exposure to the person with COVID-19. Stay at home until you’ve had a day five test and received a negative result. You should get a test five days after the day you were last near the person with COVID-19, or as soon as possible, if five days has already passed. A negative test means you do not have COVID-19. A positive test means you do have COVID-19. Public Health will call you. Separate from others in your house if you can. If you develop symptoms – even if you’ve already tested negative before – immediately get tested again and stay at home. Separate from others in your house if you can until: Find a testing centre on our website, or call Healthline. Community Testing Centres Phone 0800 358 5453 Casual Contacts are people who have been in the same place (location of interest) at the same time as someone who has COVID-19. Casual Contacts are at a lower risk of getting sick with COVID-19. Information and advice for casual contacts will be on the Ministry of Health’s website or through the NZ COVID Tracer app alerts. The actions you need to take will depend on your level of exposure to the person with COVID-19. Casual Contacts will only need to stay home or get a test if they develop symptoms. If you do get symptoms: You’ll need to stay at home until: Stay separate from others in your house if you can. Find a testing centre on our website, or call Healthline. Community Testing Centres Phone 0800 358 5453 The people you live with do not need to do anything unless you or they develop symptoms. Anyone who has symptoms will need to call Healthline, get a test, and stay home until: The person with symptoms should stay separate from others they live with if they can. There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) You can find more information and advice on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 – Ministry of Health (external link) Find more information on different types of contacts and downloadable resources. Close Contacts and their household members Download a Casual Contacts fact sheet [PDF, 97 KB] Download a Casual Plus Contacts fact sheet [PDF, 98 KB] Download a Close Contacts sheet [PDF, 101 KB] Last updated: 21 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Close Contacts must stay in self-isolation until you’re cleared to leave by Public Health and are completely well. Call Healthline if you get symptoms or need advice. Phone 0800 358 5453 If you have difficulty breathing, call an ambulance. Phone 111 Close Contacts may live or work with or have been in the same place (location of interest) at the same time as someone who has COVID-19. Close Contacts are at high risk of catching COVID-19. If you use Bluetooth tracing, the NZ COVID Tracer app may identify you. You’ll get an orange alert in the app. Public health will contact you unless you get a Bluetooth alert – then follow the instructions in the alert. The actions you need to take will depend on your level of exposure to the person with COVID-19. Close Contacts must stay in self-isolation until you're cleared to leave by Public Health. You need to immediately self-isolate at home or in a managed facility for at least 14 days. Your 14 days starts the day after you were last near the person with COVID-19. If you live with the person who has COVID-19, your self-isolation starts the day after that person: Public Health will talk with you about how long to self-isolate for, and when you can leave your home. Sometimes Close Contacts will move to a managed facility to isolate. This is to protect people they live with. Guidance on self-isolation (external link) You’ll need to get at least three tests: A negative test means you do not have COVID-19. A positive test means you do have COVID-19. Public Health will call you. Sometimes you’ll need extra tests. For example, if you develop COVID-19 symptoms. Public Health will let you know when to get tested. Even if your result is negative, you need to self-isolate until Public Health tells you that you can leave your home. Find a testing centres on our website, or call Healthline. Community testing centres Phone 0800 358 5453 Public Health will contact you regularly to check on your health and wellbeing. Tell them if you have symptoms. If you get symptoms – even if you’ve already tested negative – you'll need to: The people you live with do not need to do anything unless you or they develop symptoms. If you get symptoms, then the people you live with will need to stay at home until you have another negative test. Even if your extra test is negative, you’ll still need to finish your self-isolation period. If the people you live with get symptoms, they’ll need to: The person with symptoms should stay separate from others they live with if they can. There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) You can find more information and advice on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 – Ministry of Health (external link) Find more information on different types of contacts and downloadable resources. Casual Contacts and their household members Download a Close Contacts fact sheet [PDF, 101 KB] Download a Casual Contacts fact sheetC [PDF, 97 KB] Download a Casual Plus Contacts fact sheet [PDF, 98 KB]  Last updated: 21 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you’re unsure if you should get a test, call your doctor, Nurse Practitioner, or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Search for a testing location near you (external link) Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms If you need a test, you can get one at: Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. If you've been told you should get a test, COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This applies regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not be charged for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that your results can be sent to you. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it’s helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by Healthline or your doctor that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not be charged for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. When you are tested, you will be told how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will advise you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive If you need to be tested for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than 1 way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they’re testing. Detailed assessment and testing information from the Ministry of Health (external link) The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border (external link) Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you're travelling to New Zealand, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands do not need to get pre-departure tests. 28 May 2021: Travellers who have been in the state of Victoria in Australia on or after 20 May and are landing in New Zealand from anywhere in Australia after 11:59pm (NZT) on 31 May must have a negative pre-departure test. Travellers from Australia who do not meet these requirements and who are otherwise allowed to fly to New Zealand do not need a pre-departure test. Pre-departure testing requirements for travellers who have been in Victoria You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes data on: This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Last updated: 17 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. They will tell you what to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you are feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus spreading to others, and make sure you’re well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained on cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely monitor your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making all necessary arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It’s up to you and your family/household to decide: A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. On arrival, you will be provided with a ‘welcome pack’ with information about what to expect during your stay. You will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments, so you don’t need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you’re unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or for any COVID-19 related medical costs. The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that didn’t need hospital care, this will be: If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment.  Last updated: 28 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Last updated: 2 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it’s important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in keeping New Zealand well. For more information about New Zealand's flu campaign, and to see if you’re eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu (external link) Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. Cancer screening programmes are continuing to operate, with appropriate safeguards in place to keep participants and staff safe. It is recommended that people over 70, or with pre-existing medical conditions, confirm with their health professional if it’s safe to attend appointments. Cervical and breast screening will continue for most women. The decision to screen those with existing medical conditions will be made on a case-by-case basis. Bowel screening invitations and home testing kits will continue to be sent out. If you receive a kit in the mail, complete it and send it back as soon as possible. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) It’s important that anyone with health concerns contacts Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. Seek medical advice if you’re unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. Last updated: 27 August 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance. If your life or property is threatened, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong, get gone”. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) Last updated: 14 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. If you feel you’re not coping, it’s important to talk with a health professional. Free apps, toolkits and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry of Health has created a contact-tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury District Health Board and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by former All Black and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whānau on the depression.org.nz website. Coping with COVID-19 — from Depression.org.nz (external link) These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practise new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) Last updated: 18 January 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. Alert Level changes mean that some children will have less contact with trusted adults than usual. If you’re worried that a child or young person, you can contact Oranga Tamariki. This could include if you know a child is not safe or is not with their parents or caregivers. Contact Oranga Tamariki, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Phone 0508 326 459 Email contact@ot.govt.nz During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) Last updated: 8 June 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Everyone’s emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: It's illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harm, illegal material or inappropriate online contact It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Where to go for help Last updated: 23 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support Last updated: 16 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Beware of misinformation on social media and other sources. You can help prevent misinformation spreading by being careful about what you share with the people you work with and your whānau. Only share information from official sources. Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the virus. The best sources of accurate and reliable COVID-19 information are the Ministry of Health (external link) , this website and the Unite Against COVID-19 social media channels, and trusted sources like your district health board. Social media and newsletters If you see something about COVID-19 or the vaccine that doesn’t seem right, if it’s on social media report it to the platform – anything else report it to CERT NZ Report a scam to CERT NZ (external link) Alternatively you can call them on 0800 237 869. The World Health Organization also provides a comprehensive list of COVID-19 information, including common misconceptions and misinformation. COVID-19 advice for the public: Mythbusters (external link) Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. If you receive a scam or anything that you suspect is a scam, you can report it to CERT NZ to investigate. Report a scam to CERT NZ (external link) You may come across misinformation or scams about the COVID-19 vaccine. Here’s what you should know about the COVID-19 vaccine: If you see something about the vaccine that doesn’t seem right, report it to CERT NZ Report a scam to CERT NZ (external link) Alternatively you can call them on 0800 237 869 . Find out more about COVID-19 vaccine scams (external link) For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: Last updated: 12 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. These guidelines will continue to be updated it as more evidence becomes available. You should work with your GP or specialist if you need help understanding your own level of risk and how best to stay healthy. People with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and some older people are at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19. At all Alert Levels, when you leave the house you need to maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) Underlying medical conditions include: Many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including: Older people, in particular those who have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Aged care facilities are susceptible to the rapid transmission of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. See information on visiting an Aged Residential Care facility Overseas experience has shown a disproportionate impact from COVID-19 on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of adverse outcomes from COVID-19, particularly where there exists: People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your GP or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking (external link) We recommend pregnant women in their third trimester take extra precautions and keep themselves well at a time when the growing baby means higher oxygen demands on the mother. If you are pregnant and work in areas where there is high risk of exposure to COVID-19, for example some healthcare settings, you should discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for working differently if needed. If you cannot safely work at your workplace, and cannot work from home, you need to agree what your leave from work and pay arrangements will be with your employer. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) At Alert Level 1 it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about doing a risk assessment in your workplace to look at what the risk is for you and how it can be reduced. At Alert Level 2 there is some freedom to move around and connect with close family, whānau and friends. If you are an at-risk person, you’ll need to take extra precautions when doing this. Things you can do to stay safe: There is more detailed guidance available for people who are at higher risk of COVID-19 at Alert Level 2. This guidance includes advice on shopping, work, socialising, travel and recreation: Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 69 KB] There is more detailed guidance for people who are at higher risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. This includes people who are aged 70 and over and/or have certain existing health conditions, which may put them at risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. Find out the list of health conditions and the guidance on how you can live your life as normally as possible, including work and enjoying safe activities, without compromising your health and wellbeing at Alert Level 3. You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will be modified to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your general practitioner if you need further help understanding your own level of risk. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] Last updated: 28 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. There is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes wherever you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Using the app will help our health services reach people quickly to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. Please wear a face covering whenever you're on public transport, including flights. Keep your community safe, and cover for each other. Washing your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. It will keep the virus off your hands, so you won’t spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. Keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. Maintain physical distancing Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean it first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. Last updated: 15 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. For most people face masks are not recommended. Face masks play an important role in clinical settings, such as hospitals. For people with symptoms of an acute respiratory infection, there may be benefit in wearing a face mask to reduce the spread of infection to other people. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them getting onto your hands. Put any used tissues in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. If other people touch these surfaces they may get sick. Last updated: 8 June 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find information about contact tracing: Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. The app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you’ve been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Find out more about Bluetooth tracing If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of the 3 Ws: NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet    To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) track down people who may have been exposed to the virus. This process is called contact tracing.  More about contact tracing at the Ministry of Health (external link) There are several types of ‘contacts’: The Ministry of Health gives advice to all these types of contacts on what they need to do. Close contacts or close plus contacts are those who are likely to be at a higher risk of being infected. If you have been identified as a close contact or close plus contact of someone with COVID-19, the Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit will contact you. Advice and actions for close contacts or close plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual plus contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact. For casual plus contacts, their contact was where there is higher risk for transmission. In some specific higher-risk situations, the Ministry of Health may contact you if you are a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact or a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest at a certain time, depending on the circumstances you may be classed as a contact. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes: You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Last updated: 25 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you’ve been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there's a case of COVID-19 in the community, and stop the virus from spreading. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to: Scan QR codes at businesses, services and events with NZ COVID Tracer to create a private digital diary of the places you visit. If you visit the same place — at around the same time — as someone who later tests positive for COVID-19, you will receive an alert through the app with information on how to stay safe. Scanning QR codes keeps us one step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. You can add a manual entry to your digital diary if you cannot scan a QR code. You can also view and edit your diary at any time. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you've been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It's safe, private, and anonymous. Bluetooth tracing is not intended to replace scanning QR codes. You still need to scan QR codes to keep track of where you’ve been. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people we’ve been near. To turn on Bluetooth tracing: Watch a video describing how to turn on Bluetooth tracing (external link) Bluetooth tracing lets your phone swap anonymous random keys with nearby phones that also have Bluetooth tracing on. It’s like your phone is giving digital high-fives to other phones you're near. It records how close the other phone was, and for how long. You do not have to have the app open for it to work and it does not use mobile data. Bluetooth tracing in the app uses Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE). This uses less power than Classic Bluetooth. This means there'll be a minimal impact on phone battery life. If you or another app user in your community tests positive for COVID-19, app users who have been in close contact will get a Bluetooth alert. This alert will tell you what to do to keep yourself and your whānau safe. Watch our Bluetooth tracing video below to see how it works. Bluetooth tracing is entirely anonymous. No personal or identifying information swaps between phones. Bluetooth tracing cannot track your movements. This means no one will ever see who you’ve been near, or when or where you were near them, even if you test positive for COVID-19. How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Taking a minute to register your personal information and contact details makes it easier for contact tracers to reach you if they need to. This is optional but strongly recommended. Register your information in the ‘My data’ section of the app. How to register your information (external link) If you need to visit a COVID-19 testing station, it's helpful to have your National Health Index (NHI) number with you, as this can help speed up the process. An NHI number is a unique identifier that everyone has if they use health and disability support services in New Zealand. Save your NHI number in NZ COVID Tracer by going to the ‘My data’ screen and tapping on ‘My NHI details’. Where to find your NHI number if you do not know it (external link) Version 5.0.0 includes some new features that make the app easier to use and more useful. This version of the app includes:    Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us one step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own paper notebook. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of the 3 Ws. Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet If you have questions or feedback about the app or any problems using it: Information about privacy and COVID-19 (external link) At all Alert Levels, you legally must display a NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster if you're a: Get your QR code poster Alternative contact tracing systems for people who do not use the app Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you’re ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you’d like a booklet and cannot print your own. If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. How to use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet: Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link)  Last updated: 22 March 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Physical distancing, sometimes known as ‘social distancing’, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online.  Even if you’re wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. However, it’s still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help minimise the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. What we can do: You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you’re feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and aren’t family/whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Outside of your home, you legally must keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times, as much as possible. Workers legally must maintain 1 metre physical distance in the workplace, as much as possible. Last updated: 21 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you’re helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. Symptoms include: These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. COVID-19 symptoms Staying at home if you’re sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you’re waiting for COVID-19 test results, and have been told you need to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If somebody you live with develops cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms they should call their regular health professional. If they do not have a regular health professional they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re unwell, we recommend not sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you’re feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can be opened. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible and keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. While you’re unwell, do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. It's okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. We recommend also avoiding visiting others if you’re unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, we recommend washing them thoroughly with soap and water, putting them in the dishwasher for cleaning, or washing them in the sink. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but we recommend not preparing food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate to others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house, both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for hand-hygiene purposes. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. We recommend doing your own laundry. Dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person can be washed with other people’s items. Do not shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide a supply of laundry items to you. If you do not have a washing machine, wait until you’re no longer unwell before taking your laundry to a laundrette. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment.  If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. Last updated: 15 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol, and rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially: Always wash your hands: You can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. As long as you use soap, cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. Last updated: 15 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. A face covering helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are only 1 part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We encourage you to wear face coverings when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded indoor places, like in supermarkets. At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 2, when not on public transport, we recommend you consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering: There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to keep your distance from other people. Face coverings do not need to be worn: You also do not need to wear face coverings if: Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you think you need an exemption card, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, Healthline will talk through other options with you. If you prefer, you can download a card from the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ, or contact them on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz Download exemption card for face coverings (external link) When you wear a face covering, it's important you use it safely. How to wear a face covering safely Most people can use non-medical-grade face coverings. These face coverings prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others and could help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade face coverings can be either single-use or reusable. Non-medical-grade face coverings do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade face coverings online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to rush out and buy one. You can use another kind of covering, like a bandana, scarf or t-shirt. How to make a face covering At raised Alert Levels, people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are advised to avoid contact with the public. If you need to go out, and feel you are vulnerable, you may wish to discuss with your health provider whether using a medical mask is best for you. Medical masks are made to be used by healthcare workers. These masks provide a protective barrier between the healthcare worker and the people they are treating to reduce transmission of infectious diseases. They are used in combination with other measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing when required. They are not reusable and must comply with the standard AS 4381:2015, or international equivalent. Surgical masks are worn by healthcare professionals during healthcare procedures. They generally have a higher level of quality testing and are designed to reduce fluid splash and transmission of infectious diseases. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical and surgical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical, surgical and N95 (or equivalent) masks are available for healthcare workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. Find 2 ways of making a face covering: How to make a face covering Last updated: 23 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Take a clean piece of cotton material — for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase. Cut into a square, if it's not already. Fold it from the top inwards a third of the way down. Fold from the bottom inwards, a third of the way up. You should have an rectangle of material, folded into 3 layers. Loop your hair ties or elastic bands over the ends of the folded material. Leave enough room in the middle to comfortably cover your mouth and nose. Fold the outer edges inwards. This adds an extra layer of material over your mouth and nose. It also helps hold the face covering together. Pick up the face covering by the bands. Loop them over 1 ear at a time. Wear the face covering with the join against your face. Make your own face covering with just a handkerchief or t-shirt and 2 hair ties. Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut out a rectangle from the water-resistant fabric for the middle layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take 1 piece of your cotton fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it doesn’t catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of cotton fabric together. Make sure the cotton that will be on the outside of your face covering is turned inwards here. Lay the water-resistant fabric on top of your cotton fabric. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face covering in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. Last updated: 7 October 2020 at 11:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Never share face coverings with other people. We do not recommend face coverings be worn by: Do not re-use a mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. Make sure it is: Before you put on your face covering, clean and dry your hands. Use either: Place the face covering over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face covering should: Use either: If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your face covering down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: Take your face covering off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the face covering, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth face coverings by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the face covering completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp face covering. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face coverings. Use either: The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face covering safely. Last updated: 7 October 2020 at 11:59 pm Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: We can look after our physical health by: If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support Last updated: 14 August 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Advice for religious communities including providing last rites, funerals, and advice for Muslim communities. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Information and advice translated into different languages. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. All COVID-19 vaccination information is constantly under review. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. Advice in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information in Large Print and audio formats. Order information about COVID-19 in braille format. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you need content in braille, please contact Blind Citizens NZ. Last updated: 31 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 4 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information about COVID-19, including symptoms and getting the right information. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout, including which vaccine we're using, its safety and effectiveness, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. COVID-19 vaccine fact sheet [DOCX, 160 KB] COVID-19 vaccine fact sheet [PDF, 134 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [DOCX, 163 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [PDF, 266 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 277 KB]   Information about living at Alert Level 1. Information about getting tested, contact tracing, using the NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth, and personal protective equipment (PPE) Information about available support, and looking after your mental wellbeing. Last updated: 1 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) COVID-19 vaccines (external link) COVID-19 vaccine simplified guide (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) COVID-19 vaccination programme (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) How does quarantine-free travel work? (external link) Travelling to Australia quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free (external link)  Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It's OK to ask for help (external link) It's OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) Last updated: 4 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You might be interested in: Karawhiua is a campaign for whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Karawhiua is led by Te Puni Kōkiri, co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite Against COVID-19 teams. Visit the Karawhiua website to learn more about vaccines (external link) Ruthie was seven months hapū, with her baby Hope, when she contracted COVID-19 last year at a tangihanga. She shares her experience of being the first hapū māmā with COVID-19 in Aotearoa and her thoughts on the vaccine. Ruthie’s story is part of the Te Puni Kōkiri-led Karawhiua campaign which encourages whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities to make an informed choice about getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Watch Ruthie’s full story at Karawhiua (external link) Learn more about Alert Level 1 All of Aotearoa is at Alert Level 1. However, if there is a shift up alert levels then at Alert Level 2 whānau and friends can connect, but restrictions are still in place to manage the risk and spread of COVID-19. The general guidance for no physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place — for those who don’t live together and aren’t whānau or close friends.    These guidelines were developed to clarify public health measures and support marae to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their whānau, hapū, and iwi . We acknowledge that many iwi have already put together COVID-19 response plans for their hapū and marae. Marae should contact their tribal authority in the first instance if they have further questions. Guidance for marae If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Find out when you can get a COVID-19 vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments. Last updated: 8 March 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, contact a GP or Nurse Practitioner, Māori health provider or freephone Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or 0800 611 116 to get tested for COVID-19. Keep communal areas and frequently touched surfaces clean, such as paepae, areas where kai is prepared and served, bathrooms, tables, chairs and door handles. Make sure handwashing facilities are available and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If people can not maintain physical distance from those they do not know, we encourage wearing a face covering. Wash your hands Clean surfaces Marae should be prepared for changes in Alert Levels. We recommend having a plan in place for how the marae can operate and keep whānau safe during Alert Levels 4, 3 or 2. There are no restrictions on gatherings at marae at Alert Level 1. Hui, tangihanga, hura kōhatu, huringa tau and other gatherings can go ahead. It’s important to stay vigilant, even at Alert Level 1. Kia mataara tātou. Continue to provide appropriate hand washing facilities and make sure attendees keep up good hand washing practices. Keep frequently touched surfaces and objects clean, and make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold or flu symptoms, contact a GP, Māori health provider or freephone Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or 0800 611 116 to get tested for COVID-19. We recommend the organiser of a gathering at a marae record attendees. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer App for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer App QR code poster Marae can open and hold gatherings at Alert Level 2, with up to 100 people in a defined space. A marae can have multiple defined spaces of 100 people, provided there is no contact between them in or around the marae. If marae cannot operate safely at Alert Level 2 they may choose to close. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet Alert Level 2 restrictions. Requirements for tangihangi at Alert Level 2 Requirements for gatherings and events At all gatherings, keep each other safe by maintaining physical distancing of 1 metre. This means using greetings that don’t require physical contact, instead of hongi, harirū, kissing or hugging, with people you don’t live with or who are outside your whānau. How to maintain physical distance Before any gathering, clean all surfaces where kai will be prepared and served including benches, tables and chairs. Use disinfectant and if surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first before disinfecting. Serve kai on plates in individual portions for each person. Do not serve food buffet-style or on a shared table. Make sure people do not share food or drinks, cups, plates or cutlery. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae will need to implement a Health and Safety plan and other measures. The Health and Safety plan must be displayed and communicated to all attendees. Contact your local hauora or Māori health provider for help with health and safety. Marae can take bookings for events such as conferences or business meetings at Alert Level 2. If a business or service hires a marae for an event, Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses apply. Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses If food is served by the marae for any event, hospitality requirements apply. Hospitality requirements at Alert Level 2   A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, people can not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Last updated: 8 March 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information in Pacific languages: When you get vaccinated, you’re not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. The vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect Aotearoa from COVID-19. The Ministry for Pacific Peoples has created an educational video about the Pfizer vaccine that is also available in 9 Pacific languages. The Government has a plan to roll-out vaccinations for everyone in New Zealand and has put people into one of four groups. Some Pacific Peoples are included in Group 2 who are currently being vaccinated. You are in this group if you: Find out if you are in the Counties Manukau DHB area (external link) People in Group 2 can get early access to a vaccine because: Sign up for Group 2 updates (external link) Groups 1 and 3 are also being vaccinated now. Anyone not in Groups 1, 2, or 3 is in Group 4. Group 4 vaccinations will begin at the end of July. Our COVID-19 vaccination plan. Make sure you get the latest news and updates from reliable sources. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. At different Alert Levels, gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and it will also impact a number of other religious practices. There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a religious event or ceremony at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at religious events and ceremonies to keep track of attendees. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses Religious buildings can open at Alert Level 2. Up to 100 people can gather in each defined space for religious ceremonies, events and services. A defined space is an area that is partitioned off from other areas by permanent or temporary walls. Faith-based institutions and clubs can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each area. You will need to prevent mingling between groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. Read more about defined spaces at Alert Level 2 Gatherings legally must: We recommend that religious and faith-based gatherings follow social gathering rules, unless they’re operating under a club licence to sell alcohol. Then we recommend following hospitality rules. We recommend not participating in any gatherings if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. We recommend following the general guidance for gatherings, including measures such as frequent cleaning, good hygiene, wearing face coverings and physical distancing. More information about gatherings and events at Alert Level 2. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they’re visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must adhere to the visiting policy of the health facility and follow the relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Halaal butchers may open, and you may enter the store. The shop legally must adhere to physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 2. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. A maximum of 100 people can attend the funeral. Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. Places of worship can use a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. You cannot enter the premises. We recommend either collecting your meat or getting it delivered to your home. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend funerals. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link)  Last updated: 7 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. How to improve community resilience, connect communities, and how to prepare for an emergency as a community. Buying local is a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Help local tourism businesses by getting out and seeing New Zealand. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) Last updated: 23 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Learn about all of the heroes supporting their communities to stay safe, healthy and informed about COVID-19. David Dewhurst is one of 80 volunteers who made up the QLDC COVID-19 Emergency Response Team from March to June 2020. With COVID-19 shutting our borders and businesses, thousands, mostly migrants, were out of work, unable to pay for groceries and rent, and ineligible for government support. Elderly and vulnerable community members were unable to shop safely to get essential groceries and medication. Anxiety rose, mental health and well-being suffered; the community responded. From March 24 to June 30, 23,342 requests for emergency support were submitted by 7,377 people living in the Queenstown Lakes area (population 39,153). Volunteers worked unpaid on a two-days on, two-days off roster to make hundreds of calls to people who had submitted requests for support. Through a rigorous needs assessment system, thousands of people were able to access the Civil Defence-funded supermarket voucher scheme to get food. Volunteers also responded to requests for accommodation, financial support, mental health assistance, assistance with pets, and language help. The QLDC Emergency Response Team was a semi-finalist in the Mitre 10 NZ Community of the Year 2021 awards (external link) . Watch David’s story (external link)  Manish Pandey is the vice president of Christchurch Multicultural Council. During the lockdown, Manish, in association with the Indian High Commission and community groups, assisted international students and new migrant families get access to food and other essentials. He also helped by translating official COVID-19 advice and news for the Indian community. Manish is a volunteer for the Office of Ethnic Communities as information facilitator on its Multilingual Information Network, working with OEC to help share important government information - ensuring New Zealand’s ethnic communities receive material in languages and ways that work for them.  Sikh temples around New Zealand responded to the national lockdown and the Alert Level 3 changes by distributing thousands of food parcels to hungry people. The Supreme Sikh Society observed that as the national lockdown continued last year, an increasing number of people were struggling to get access to food. During this time, the society estimated its temples distributed free meals and food parcels to 66,000 families from Auckland to Queenstown. For this work, the Society received the New Zealand Food Heroes People’s Choice Award in 2020. The award acknowledged: “The scale and compassion to vulnerable communities by the Supreme Sikh Society is impressive. Their timely and valuable response to the challenges of COVID show a dedication to the greater good.” In Auckland, Counties Manukau Police classified the Sikh temple in Takanini as an essential service provider where its Sikh volunteers even ensured a contactless system for collecting food where drivers were asked to drive in one gate, open their boot for a volunteer to load the parcel, before driving out through another gate. Sikh society wins prestigious award for service to community (external link)  Allen Lim is a horticulturalist at Jade Garden in the Selwyn District, near Christchurch. During lockdown last year when wholesale suppliers were shut, he donated vegetables to community food banks which were running out of food. He and his group of tramping friends had come up with the idea to supply food banks because they were aware of the food shortages. He says he couldn’t have done without his tramping group who helped to get the produce out of the ground because although there was a surplus of produce, he was struggling to keep up with the demand from the supermarkets at the time.  Rozina Shaheen, known as Tooba Habib, originally from Pakistan, moved to Christchurch in 2007. She is a well-known community leader and volunteer among Canterbury’s ethnic communities and is the women’s coordinator of Muslim Association of Canterbury. Tooba spent last year helping some of the 15 March Christchurch terror attack victims but also provided support and coordination for international students and their families left isolated in New Zealand because of the COVID-19 pandemic. She helped these families get access to financial assistance as part of her ‘Support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ’ programme. Tooba is grateful for the kind hearts of New Zealanders who provided emotional and financial support to those in the community who are in need.  Eva Chen is an Auckland Council Ethnicity Peoples Advisory Panel member and a Strategies for Kids, Information for Parents (SKIP) Champion with Oranga Tamariki’s SKIP programme working with immigrant communities. Eva co-founded the Wellbeing Charitable Trust which has been working with Asian communities since 2014. She led a COVID-19 support programme to help ensure that New Zealand’s Chinese communities had access to official COVID-19 information. Just before lockdown, Eva set up the Mt Albert Chinese business support group to ensure people remained connected and supported. A key aim was to prevent family harm during a stressful time. She helped provide daily COVID-19 information updates in Chinese. Since July 2020, her group has focused on post-COVID-19 support for individuals and families, helping with the consequences of bullying and racism. Wellbeing Charitable Trust (external link)  Narinder Singh Warraich, originally from northern India, is the president of the Canterbury Punjabi Association. During the national lockdown, Narinder and his team assisted international students, stranded visitors and new migrant families by distributing food and face masks. He translated COVID-19 advice and news and used community radio and social media to keep the community informed. After the lockdown, Narinder took the initiative of organising workshops for people who had lost their jobs. One job fair attracted over 120 participants and connected unemployed people to Work and Income Work Brokers. Christchurch City MP Dr Duncan Webb acknowledged the work of the Association with a Members’ motion in Parliament on 26 May 2020, asking the House to “express its gratitude to the Canterbury Punjabi Association for the outstanding work it did over the period of the COVID-19 lockdown in supporting both its own community and the wider Canterbury community by the provision of free food parcels to anyone in need, in keeping with the best Punjabi tradition of daswandh and selfless service”.  Jane Potts is a St John Volunteer Ambulance Officer in Darfield. She attended ambulance callouts at any time of the day or night through all Alert Levels during the lockdown. This was unpaid. It required her to leave her safety bubble in order to save lives. Jane was awarded a Selwyn District Council COVID Heroes Award for her selfless dedication and professionalism to the community.  Jessica Phuang led her police team of 11 ethnic liaison officers to ensure that ethnic communities did not become victims of scams or racism. They gathered feedback on challenges faced in dealing with different government agencies, and to give advice and suggestions to those agencies on how to meet the needs of these communities. The team also linked ethnic communities to appropriate service providers and helped keep them updated with COVID-19 news. Through some ethnic social media channels, they were able to counteract misinformation and co-opt these channels to work with police. The team also contacted international students and tourists stranded in New Zealand without support to ensure that they were getting assistance.  Russ Carroll was a key person in the supply line of essential goods for delivery to workers and communities. During lockdown, he managed the delivery of thousands of online orders made by New Zealanders isolating in their homes. His motivated team worked long hours during a time of great uncertainty. Physical distancing rules had to be implemented together with a lane system to allow staff to get around the shop safely and efficiently. Workers would handpick products, pack stock and process orders, dealing with up to 2,500 packages a day. Russ is grateful for the support he received from the company, which in turn meant he could offer the best support for his team during an unprecedented time.  Vincents Art Workshop is a Wellington social service that welcomes people with disabilities, those moving into the community from institutions, the unemployed, people on low incomes and others. During lockdown and throughout 2020, its tutors provided connections and activities for its community of artists. The Vincents Artist Group on Facebook grew to 188 members. Staff published tutorials on its Facebook page, website, YouTube and on the Arts Access Aotearoa Facebook page to keep its artists busy. Tutors were careful to suggest using art materials that were commonly available at home or in people’s gardens. Regular communication with all its artists was vital to keep everyone connected and safe. Staff often held phone conversations with artists, their family members or support people when there were concerns about some artists’ anxiety levels. The Vincents team continues to work with a focus on contact tracing and hygiene to protect its community. Vincents Art Workshop (external link)  With the arrival of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Pakistan Association acted quickly to share awareness and safety information. It initiated regular Facebook Live and Zoom meetings to help its 10,000 community members. These initiatives were expanded to wider communities to work collaboratively in other areas like child and elder welfare. Association members, including doctors, clinical nurses, health workers, emergency specialist nurses, pharmacists and mental health support workers, were able to respond to COVID-19-related enquiries from its members. Volunteers also mobilised in South Auckland, distributing free food parcels and personal protective equipment (PPE) to people in need irrespective of religious affiliation or ethnicity. The Association also helped in situations requiring end-of-life care, funerals, burials and emergencies during lockdown. Pakistan Association of New Zealand (external link)  Gatluak, originally from South Sudan, is a community advocate at the Aotearoa Resettled Community Coalition (ARCC). He’s the voice of forced migrant background communities (communities that lived as refugees in other countries and resettled here). In 2020, Gatluak shared COVID-19 information from the Ministry of Health with Sudanese community leaders and families in the US, Norway, France, UK, Denmark, Finland, Canada, Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda, Sudan, South Sudan and Egypt. He translated and relayed information to combat misinformation in Sudanese communities where accurate information was hard to access. During lockdowns in the Auckland region, he distributed face masks and food parcels to many Auckland communities, and used ARCC video and radio to broadcast messages of health and wellbeing. Find out more about Gatluak’s story (external link) Aotearoa Resettled Community Coalition (external link)  Tam is the President of Lakes District Multicultural Council (LDMC) and founder of the charity Baskets of Blessing.  During the lockdown last year, she initiated a migrant needs assessment survey to find out how to best support migrants. The survey results were shared with other South Island community groups and used to identify needs and gaps in the community. LDMC also delivered grocery and pharmacy vouchers and arranged for medical appointments for those who could not afford them. This summer, Tam’s work is focused on the rollout of various initiatives to support vulnerable groups, including providing COVID-19 information, distributing personal protective equipment (PPE), delivering self-care and wellness kits to those who are isolated or lonely, organising opportunities for connection for migrants and working with other groups to build community resilience. Lakes District Multicultural Council Facebook page (external link) Baskets of Blessing (external link)  Hero is the co-ordinator of ‘Toranj’, a fortnightly Plains FM radio programme and podcast in the Farsi language of the Iranian community. During the nationwide lockdown last year, Hero and the Christchurch Iranian Society team translated information and gave daily COVID-19 updates. This was critical at a time when ‘infodemic’ (or ‘fake news’) had become a serious obstacle to getting government-sanctioned science-based pandemic information. The Christchurch Iranian Society set up online classes to provide opportunities for people with limited English to learn new skills and/or pick up a hobby while the country navigated through the different Alert Levels. The programmes included yoga classes, cooking and photography — each given by qualified members of the Iranian community in New Zealand. Plains FM (external link)  Alfie is a Plains FM broadcaster and producer of the Tagalog language programme Kabayan Radio for the Filipino community in Canterbury. His programme is also broadcast on Radio Southland in Invercargill. Over lockdown, Alfie broadcast important COVID-19 messages on Facebook Live from his garage and recorded and sent in another programme for Plains FM to broadcast weekly which included key messages from the Unite against COVID website. Alfie is continuing to broadcast his radio programme, giving advice and assistance to the Filipino community, including reminders on keeping safe from COVID-19. Plains FM (external link)  James Roque, an Auckland-based comedian and writer who describes himself as the Filipino stepson of New Zealand comedy, was the face of the Human Rights Commission and the Office of Ethnic Communities’ Racism Is No Joke campaign. James was featured in a series of short videos discussing racist jokes, and why they are not OK. The Racism Is No Joke campaign was launched in July 2020 as a specific response to racism towards Chinese and other Asian people in New Zealand because of COVID-19. Using humour and insights from his own experience as the second generation of a Filipino migrant family, James sought to influence New Zealanders and increase public awareness of racial discrimination and its negative impact on Asian communities living here. James Roque's website (external link)  Annemarie is a former ICU nurse who responded to the call by the Nursing Council of New Zealand for ex-nurses to help with the COVID-19 pandemic response. The Lakes district health board (DHB) nursing team were given 12 hours’ notice to set up the first of 2 managed isolation facilities in Rotorua. She says there is a lot of misunderstanding in the community about what they do. While she is on the frontline of a ‘Viral World War’, they have the right equipment and processes to protect the public. Her Rotorua team has been working hard to educate the community and demystify their work in Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ). Annemarie will be spending her summer working with her 450 Rotorua nursing, Defence Force and security colleagues to continue to keep the community safe. The Waikato district health board Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) Cultural Intervention Team welcomes and supports arrivals in MIQ in accordance with the manaakitanga (hospitality) of Waikato people. Their work supports every facet of Tikanga Māori, from welcoming returning guests, completing assessments, supporting those experiencing bereavement and trauma, and providing karakia and a safe space to korero. Activities offered include online Zumba fitness sessions, flax weaving, Mau Rakau (Māori martial arts) and te reo Māori classes. During the lockdown, the cultural team provided support to all ethnicities. Despite all the work they and the wider MIQ team does to protect New Zealand, its team leader, Ikimoke Tamaki-Takarei, says staff are often stigmatised in the community, despite the very strict health guidelines they work to. Maysa is the host of Bel A’arabee, a weekly Free FM radio show and podcast. She saw a much-needed opportunity to get relevant COVID-19 information delivered quickly, and she worked hard to translate the content for New Zealand’s Arabic-speaking communities. Maysa translated the Prime Minister’s COVID-19 media conferences, recording them in Arabic for broadcasting and podcasting on Free FM by 5pm each day. When Free FM went into lockdown, she continued to produce her programme from home. Her fellow broadcasters at Free FM are proud of her commitment and achievement in making each day’s information delivered quickly to the Arabic speaking communities. www.freefm.org.nz (external link) Sara is a Chinese language journalist and broadcaster. She worked at WTV, an Auckland-based Chinese language television station where she translated Unite against COVID-19 information for Chinese viewers. Sara’s broadcasts helped keep the mainly Mandarin-speaking communities in touch and up to date with Alert Level changes. Sara has a YouTube channel which she uses to entertain people and keep give them advice on all manner of subjects. She has even made one on the Make Summer Unstoppable theme. Sara's YouTube channel (external link)  The Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust is a Christchurch-based non-profit volunteering organisation that provides community services to the community. During lockdown, the Trust contacted vulnerable people with a special focus on elderly individuals who lived alone. Trust volunteers carried out food deliveries and provided financial assistance by assisting with Ministry of Social Development (MSD) grants. Volunteers also supported vulnerable people and families emotionally and socially to make them feel safe and stronger. The Trust opened an op-shop to help supply affordable winter and summer clothing to those affected by the closure of workplaces and the loss of work contracts and hours. Philippine Culture and Migrants Services Trust Facebook page (external link)  Lepou was a broadcaster with Plains FM on the weekly Samoan language programme Samoa Feso’ota’i. During the lockdown last year, she was active in her community, translating and broadcasting important COVID-19 messaging on the weekly radio show and podcast. She also delivered food parcels, food vouchers, hygiene packs and face coverings to over 200 families and 10 churches in the Christchurch area. Many of the struggling families and individuals had contacted her through her radio show. Sadly, Lepou recently passed away but her team is intent on carrying on the good works and service that she brought to her community. Listen to Samoa Feso’ota’i at Plains FM (external link)  The team of staff and volunteers at Asian Families Services (AFS) continues to provide counselling support and advice to diverse communities over the summer. During the lockdown, its services experienced a spike in demand on its Asian Helpline number, with many callers needing psychological, medical and informational support. Many clients are vulnerable, non-English speaking older people with long-term health conditions and/or mobility limitations who became completely isolated during the lockdown. AFS provides services in Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Japanese, Thai, Vietnamese and Hindi. During 2020, it worked with 2,834 clients, carried out 6,101 interventions and took 3,215 Helpline calls. Find out more about Asian Families Services (external link)  When Graham Bye arrived in New Zealand to join The Warehouse in January 2020, he never expected during his first few months that he would have to deal with the challenges of an unprecedented global pandemic. The Warehouse at Sylvia Park, which Graham manages, became a vital source of essential supplies requested by government agencies during the lockdown. Following the request from government, Graham and his team moved quickly to rearrange the shop, so it was fit for purpose to pack orders for requested products. Every day, they would receive an email with a list of required items which the team needed to locate within the store and package. Team members would grab shopping trolleys to collect the requested stock from the shelves and then box them up for delivery. Graham liaised with government agencies throughout Alert Levels 4 and 3 to maintain supply lines. He also ensured his team remained motivated, upbeat, connected and above all else, safe.  The CNSST Foundation (formerly known as the Chinese New Settlers Services Trust) provides services to Asian new settlers, including settlement orientation, educational and work programmes, and social housing. The Foundation’s Social Housing Team worked hard to protect a vulnerable group of people — elderly people, particularly the 51 residents who live in its social housing apartment. The team is continuing its work over the summer by providing information and services, including distributing personal protective equipment (PPE), to keep its elderly residents connected and safe. Find out more about The CNSST Foundation (external link)  Team TANI has been fully committed to responding to the increased community needs of Asian peoples in the Auckland region during the COVID-19 crisis. It did this by providing the most up-to-date information for accessing relevant public health, social support and mental well-being services. The team also initiated online wellbeing programs to support Asian communities during a challenging year and will continue that work in 2021. Find out more about The Asian Network Incorporated (external link)  Last updated: 25 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It’s natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it’s important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) When we get to know our neighbours we’re more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) Last updated: 23 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You’ll be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) Last updated: 23 July 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ngā tohutohu Reo Māori. Kia mataara tonu mai ki ngā pārongo whakahou KŌWHEORI-19 a te Kāwanatanga. Stay up to date with the Government’s latest COVID-19 information. Kia puta ake he pārongo hou kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori ka tuku whakaohiti mātou ki a koe mā te īmēra. Whenever any new translated information is published in Māori, we will send an email to alert you. Hono mai | Sign up (external link)  He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate Vaccine overview Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate After your immunisation  Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria Quarantine-Free Travel between New Zealand and Australia Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand  Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate The COVID-19 virus and symptoms He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika Getting the right information matters Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona If you test positive to COVID-19  Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau Testing Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere Turn on Bluetooth tracing   Te noho i te pae 1 Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 Living at Level 4  Hei āwhina tangata Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi Financial support for businesses  Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Te akuaku Hygiene posters Tohu whakamana ki o marae Posters for your marae Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai [PDF, 97 KB] Face coverings and masks Whāia ōu tapuwae [PDF, 125 KB] Track your journey Kia haumaru te haere [PDF, 119 KB] Travel safely Kotahi tau i muri mai: Te rāhuitanga Pae Mataara 4 (external link) One year on: Alert Level 4 lockdown   Last updated: 19 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. He wāhanga mātuatua ngā kano ārai mate e haumaru ana, e whaihua ana hoki ki te āhua o tā tātou tiaki i a Aotearoa me ngā kiritata kei Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa i a KOWHEORI-19. Ka whakahirahira hoki ngā kano ārai mate ki tō tātou haumanutanga ā-ōhanga, ki te huakanga anō hoki o ō tātou ripa tauārai. Ka utu-kore ngā kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. Kāore te marea o Aotearoa e herea e te ture kia werohia. Ka puta te tiakanga i ngā kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mō ngā tau e tū mai nei. Heoi, me mahi tonu tātou katoa ki te aukati tonu i a KOWHEORI-19 i ō tātou hapori. Me mātua ū tātou ki ngā ture matua e whā: te horoi ringa, te karapa tohu urupare-wawe (QR), te whakakā i te hono iarere (Bluetooth) me te noho i te kāinga ina pāngia e te māuiui. I a tātou ka uru ki tēnei wāhanga hou o tā tātou pakanga ki a KOWHEORI-19, e whakahirahira rawa ake ana te whai pārongo i ngā puna e whakaaetia ana. Ka raru tātou i te hē o te pārongo, i te wā me mātua mahi tahi tātou hei aukati i te wheori. Ka kitea he pārongo e pono ana; i tō Tākuta, i a Healthline, i tō Poari Hauora ā-Takiwā, i te Manatū Hauora, i te pae tukutuku hoki o Unite Against Covid-19, i www.covid19.govt.nz Kua aromātaihia, kua whakaaetia hoki e Medsafe te whakamahinga o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech ki Aotearoa. Ko Medsafe te kaiwhakarite ā-rongoā i Aotearoa e motuhake ana. Ko tāna he aromātai i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate. Me ū ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā paerewa ā-ao, ki ngā here ā-takiwā hoki e pā ana ki te kounga, ki te haumarutanga me te whaihua i mua i te whakaaetanga me te whakamahinga ki Aotearoa. Kua mau i te Kāwanatanga he putunga kano ārai mate nā Pfizer/BioNTech hei tuku ki te katoa o te motu whānui, hei tautoko hoki i ō tātou kiritata kei Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa. 10 miriona te tapeke o ngā pota o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech ka noho ki Aotearoa. Ka nui tēnei hei wero i te 5 miriona tāngata ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 me mātua whai e rātou. E utu-kore ana te wātea o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 ki te katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te āhua ki tō kōkota, ki tō kirirarautanga rānei. Ina kohia he pārongo, e kore e whakamahia mō ngā take manene. E whakarite ana a Te Manatū Hauora i tētahi mahere e tōkeke ai te tohaina o ngā kano ārai mate. Ka noho mātāmua ko ērā e mōrearea ake ana i a KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i ngā kaimahi i te ripa tauārai, i ngā kaimahi hauora, i ngā Māori, i ngā uri o Te Moananui- a-Kiwa, i ngā kaumātua me ngā hauā. Ko te hunga tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai, kei ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi hoki nā ō rātou tūranga mahi hei aukati tonu i a KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka whai wāhi mai ki tēnei rōpū ko ngā kaiwhakapaipai, ko ngā nēhi e whakahaere ana i ngā arowhai hauora i ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ko ngā kaiwhakahaumaru, ko ngā āpiha o te mana ārai, o te ripa tauārai anō hoki, ko ngā kaimahi hōtēra me ētahi atu. Ko te hunga hoki e noho tahi ana ki a rātou ngā tāngata tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate. Kua whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech i raro i ngā aratohu e whai ake nei: Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo anō mō tā Aotearoa toha i ngā kano ārai mate Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i te wā o te werohia ōu Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i muri i te werohia ōu E wawe rawa ana kia mōhio tātou ki te āhua o tā te wātea o ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, i te ao whānui hoki whakaaweawe i ngā panonitanga ki ō tātou herenga i ngā ripa tauārai. E mahi ana ngā kairangahau ki te whakaū i te noho tonu rānei a te tangata kua werohia hei kaituku, ka tuku ai i a KOWHEORI-19 ki tangata kē atu. Kia tūturu rā anō tērā pārongo, me ū tonu ā tātou whakaritenga i ngā ripa tauārai o te wā nei. Last updated: 19 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. He wā ōna ka puta he pāwera tino kino engari me uaua ka pērā. Kua whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ērā āhuatanga. Ko ētahi mate āpiti ka pā pea ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ki te tūpono puta tēnei tūāhuatanga, tēnā kōrerohia atu ki tō kaituku mahi. Mēnā ka rongo koe i ētahi tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i tētahi maremare e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka whai ai i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka tūpono puta tētahi tauhohenga ki tō werohanga mō KOWHEORI-19, me whāki atu e tō kaiwero, e tō mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E pai ana hoki tō whāki tōtika atu i ngā tauhohenga ka tūpono pā mā te tuku īmēra ki a CARM, mā te whakakī rānei i tā rātou puka whāki ā-ipurangi kei te pae tukutuku a CARM, kei otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mēnā ka matawaenga koe e pā ana ki ō tohumate, mēnā rānei ka kino ake, kōrero ki tō tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ā, kī atu ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate | After your immunisation [PDF, 84 KB] Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 88 KB] Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. Last updated: 4 March 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko tā te mau uwhi mata he āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, mā te pērā hoki koe me ētahi atu e haumaru ai. Ka āwhina te uwhi mata i te aukatinga o te rere o ngā kōpata ka kōrero ana, ka kata ana, ka maremare ana, ka matihe ana rānei tētahi. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ki tēnei te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, engari e pēnei ana ia kei te pai tōna ora, kāore rānei ngā tohumate e āta kitea ana. Ehara i te mea me mau te nuinga o ngā tāngata i ngā ārai ā-hauora, ka mutu e pai ana kia mau rātou i ētahi atu momo uwhi mata. Ka kōrerotia te tangata me mātua whai i te uwhi mata, i te ārai ā-hauora rānei, e tōna kaituku mahi. Mehemea kāore ō uwhi mata, māu rānei tētahi e hanga, e hoko rānei. Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei.  Last updated: 31 March 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: I tētahi wā pēnei: Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) Last updated: 14 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) Last updated: 14 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. Last updated: 14 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate I runga ki nga waka tūmatanui, ai ka ū nga arai mata Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. Last updated: 21 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Kua herea kia kaua e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i ngā hui pēnei i ngā huinga karakia, i te hākinakina, i te taiopenga pāpori hoki. Kua whakaaetia te tokomaha atu ki te 100 tāngata i ngā tangihanga mehemea ka ea i te kaiwhakahaere ngā herenga. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga E āhei ana kia tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kirihoko ngā wāhi pakihi e whakatutuki ana i ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ka whai wāhi ki ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui, ko: E āhei ana kia rere ngā ratonga ka tukuna ki ngā wāhi tonu o te kirihoko — hei tauira, ki tōna kāinga, me ngā ratonga pā tata e whakatutuki nei i ngā whakaritenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ki te kore e tutuki i te wāhi mahi ēnei whakaritenga, kua kore e āhei kia rere ana mahi. E whakatenatenahia ana ngā pakihi katoa kia whai i huarahi mahi kē mēnā ka taea, kia kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā tūraru me ngā huarahi hei whakatau i ērā. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi ērā atu kawenga katoa mō te hauora me te haumaru, me whai hoki kia haumaru, kia ora tonu hoki ngā kaimahi, ā, me eke hoki rātou ki ngā paeraro e tika ana mō te tuku mahi. E tuwhera ana ngā Whare Ako Kōhungahunga, ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā whare o ngā kura tuatoru ki ngā pakeketanga katoa. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: Mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana koe, e pai ana tō hāereere. Heoi, me ū ki ngā tikanga e haumaru ai te haere. Me mau ārai i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā wā rānei e uaua ana te tū tīrara. Puritia he kōrero mō ō nekehanga. E pai ana tō kuhu ki ō mahi me ngā mahi ā-rēhia he rite tonu te mahia mēnā rā ka haumaru te mahia. Heoi mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. I a koe e whakapakari tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, me whai kia rua mita tō tawhiti i ngā tāngata kāore i te mōhiotia e koe. E āhei ana tō mahi i ngā mahi pēnei i te: Me kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ngā tākaro i te hapori. Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te 100 tāngata ngā kaiwawao, ngā āpiha me kaimahi kē atu e tuku ratonga ana ki te tākaro. Kāore e herea ngā huihuinga mō ngā tākaro e whai kaitākaro ukiuki ana, e whai kaitākaro harangotengote ana rānei. E pēnei ana nā te mea e kīia ana ngā kaitākaro he kaimahi i te wāhi mahi. E kīia ana he huihuinga ngā kaimātakitaki, me te aha kua herea kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ia rōpū. E āhei ana kia tini tonu ngā wāhi kua tautuhia i te papa tākaro mā te whai: Me whai kia kaua rānei ngā rōpū e kōmitimiti, e whai wāhi rānei ki te wāhi kotahi i te wā kotahi. Hei tauira, e āhei ana kia tākarohia te whutupōro mēnā kāore e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i te papa tākaro i te wā kotahi. Mēnā he pae mātakitaki kei ngā taha e rua o te papa tākaro, e āhei ana kia hui te tokomaha atu ki te 100 ki ia pae mātakitaki mehemea e wehe ana rātou i ērā kei tērā atu pae mātakitaki, i ngā kaitākaro me ngā kaiwawao hoki kei te papa tākaro. Ko ngā kaiwhakahaere me te tangata e whakahaere ana i te wāhi e noho haepapa ana ki te kohikohi i ngā pārongo mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He aratohu nā Ihi Aotearoa (external link) Kia kaua rawa te huihuinga pāpori e tokomaha ake i te 100 ki tētahi wāhi kua tautuhia i te wā kotahi. E whai wāhi ana ki tēnei: Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te paerunga o te 100 tāngata ngā kaimahi e tuku ratonga ana ki te huihuinga pāpori. Me mā tonu ngā mata, horoia ō ringa, ā, i ngā wā e taea ana, me haumaru te tū tīrara. Mēnā kāore e taea te ū kia tawhiti ā-tinana nei koe i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, whakaarotia te mau uwhi mata. E ai ki te ture, me mātua takoto i te kaiwhakahaere o te hui ngā ingoa o te hunga ka tae ake e taea ai te whakatewhatewha pānga mehemea me pērā. Ehara i te mea me pērā mehemea e mōhio ana te katoa ki te katoa, heoi anō he pai tonu te whakaaro kia pērā. Mehemea kua rīhingia e koe tētahi wāhi hei huihuinga noa iho mō te tāngata, e pūmau tonu ana ngā ture e pā ana ki te huihuinga. Last updated: 21 October 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Me noho koe ki te kāinga kei hora te mate. Me mahi mai i te kāinga, māna kāore e taea. Me ako mai i te kāinga ngā tamariki ina taea. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Ko tā ngā tāngata katoa i Tāmakimakaurau: Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Ā-ture nei me mau uhi kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i runga i ngā rerenga ā-motu hoki. E tino whakatenatena ana kia kaha te mau uhi kanohi i ngā tūāhuatanga kāore e taea te tū tīrara, pēnā ki ngā toa. Ngā uhi kanohi He mea nui kia whai koe i ngā āhuatanga māmā o te tikanga akuaku, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te maremare, te matihe rānei ki te whatianga o tō ringa, me te hori o ngā papa katoa. E tino whakatenatenahia ana kia whakatakina ō haerenga, me te hunga ka kite ai koe. He mea āwhina i te whakataki tere i te tangata ina hiahiatia. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, mehemea kāore koe i te mahi, i te kura rānei, ā-ture nei me hoki koe ki tō mirumiru kāinga noho ai. E āhei ana koe ki te whakawhānui ake i tēnei: He mea nui kia tiakina tō mirumiru. Me tāuke tō mirumiru, me whakaae anake kia uru mai te tangata mehemea ka pai tāu, me tā rātou noho haumaru, noho hauora anō hoki. Ki te māuiui haere tētahi i roto i tō mirumiru, ā-ture nei me noho taratahi rātou i ētahi atu i te mirumiru.  Kaua e pōhiri, e whakaae rānei ki ngā manuhiri, pērā ki ngā hoa, te whānau whānui, whānau rānei ki te kuhu mai ki tō kāinga. E āhei ana to hāereere i tō ake rohe, hei tauira, mō te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei, ki te hokohoko, ki te whakapakari tinana rānei. E āhei ana te haere tonu o ngā waka tūmatanui i runga i ngā tino herenga hauora, haumaru hoki. Ki te Pae Mataara 3 kua tino herea ngā haerenga i waenga i ngā rohe. Kua tino herea te haerenga atu me te haerenga mai i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3. Hei aukati i te hora o te mate tēnei mahi. Me tono whakaaetanga koe i tua atu kia pai ai tō haerenga i tētahi rohe Pae Mataara ki tētahi rohe Pae Mataara. I runga i te ture me kati rawa ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Tae atu tēnei ki ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā kōti kai, ngā whare whakapakari tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā papatākaro me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā ki te ako i ngā ngohe hou, ki te hura rānei i a koe, i tō mirumiru rānei ki te mōrea. E āhei ana ngā ngohe ā-rēhia, iti te mōrea, ki tō ake rohe. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaritea he herenga ki te whakahaumaru i ngā kaimahi, ki te whakaiti hoki i te tāutuutu i waenga i ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki, hei ara aukati i te hora o te KOWHEORI-19.  Ko te tino tohutohu kia mahi mai i te kāinga ngā kaimahi ina taea. Mehemea kei te raru koe mō te taha moni, arā pea he āwhina māu. He tautoko mō te taha ki te kai, ki te moni, ki te noho, ki te noho haumaru, noho ora anō hoki Last updated: 11 March 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Mō te Pae Mataara 4 me: Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te huaketo me ngā tohu o te Mate Korona Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te Whakamātautau Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te haurapa Hono Iarere Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Pāwhiria i konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi Kua katia katoatia ngā Akomanga Kōhungahunga, ngā puna kōhungahunga, ngā kura, me ngā kura wānanga. Mā te tino whai take e taea ai te haere ki rohe kē. Me kati ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā whare pukapuka, ko ngā whare pupuri taonga, ko ngā whare pikitia, ko ngā papa kai, ko ngā whare hākinakina, ko ngā puna kaukau, ko ngā papa tākaro, ko ngā mākete hoki. Kāore e whakaaetia kia tū ngā hui tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā tākaro, ko ngā mārena, ko ngā uhunga, tangihanga rānei, te aha noa. Me kaua koe e whakapā ā-tinana atu ki tētahi atu i tō ake poihau. E taea ai te korikori, te tākaro māmā hoki ki roto i tō rohe tata, hei tauira, e āhei ana ki te hīkoi, ki te oma rānei tata ki tō kāinga. Ehara tēnei i te wā kia whāia e koe he koringa hou. Me mahi i mamao ngā kaipakihi katoa atu i ērā kua tohua hei ratonga whai tikanga. Me whai ritenga e haumaru ai ngā kaimahi, me whakatiki i ngā whakapānga ki ngā kiritaki, me whakatiki hoki i te horanga o te Mate Korona. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi tuku ratonga pērā i ngā ratonga hauora, ngā ratonga whaipainga, me ngā kaikawe utanga. Me whai tonu ngā kaitukumahi i ēnei tū mahi i ngā tikanga hauora, haumaru anō. Ki te tūpono ka ohotata (pērā i te ahi, te rū whenua, te tai āniwhaniwha, te aha noa) whāia ngā ritenga ohotata. Ka whai mana kē atu ēnei ritenga ohotata i ērā o te Mate Korona, heoi me tū tīrara tonu i ngā wā e taea ai. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero hei ārahi i a koe i ngā wā ohotata Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā kaipakihi Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Find out when you can get a vaccine Kua whai a Aotearoa i ngā pota 10 miriona o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech. E nui ana ērā e werohia ai ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate me whai e whakatōngia ai rātou ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. He mahere tā te Kāwanatanga e utukore ai, e tōkeke ai hoki te wātea o te kano ārai mate ki a rātou. Ka whakamātāmuatia te hunga e nui ake ana te mōrearea i a KOWHEORI-19. E hiahia ana mātou kia whai wāhi ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki te ārai i a rātou anō, i ō rātou whānau me ō tātou hapori, mā te werohanga ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. Ka tohaina haerehia ngā pota ki ngā rōpū e whā. Ko te whāinga, kia werohia ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki te kano ārai mate i mua i te mutunga o te tau 2021. Ko te hunga tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate ko ō tātou kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai me te hunga e noho tahi ana ki a rātou. Ka whai wāhi ki tēnei rōpū ngā kaiwhakapaipai, ngā nēhi e whakahaere ana i ngā arowhai hauora i ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ngā kaiwhakahaumaru, ngā āpiha o te mana ārai, o te ripa tauārai anō hoki, ngā kaimahi hōtēra, ngā kaimahi pukumaire me ngā pirihimana e tika ana kia whakaurua ki ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ngā kaimahi waka rererangi, ngā mana taunga poti me ngā kaiwero i te kano ārai mate. Ka rere ngā werohanga o tēnei Rōpū ki te kano ārai mate hei a Pēpuere me Māehe o te tau 2021. Kia mutu te whakatōngia o ō tātou kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai me te hunga e noho tahi ana ki a rātou ki te kano ārai mate, kātahi mātou ka whakatōngia ki te kano ārai mate ko ngā kaimahi hauora kei ngā aroaro ākapa e nui ana te tūpono pāngia ki a KOWHEORI-19, e nui ana hoki/rānei te tūpono o te horanga o te mate rā mā ō rātou whakawhitinga me te tūroro. Kei te Rōpū 2 hoki ko ngā Māori me ngā tāngata o Te Moana nui a Kiwa e pakeke ake ana, e tiakina nei e ngā whānau (ko ērā hoki e noho tahi ana ki a rātou, me ō rātou kaitiaki). Hei wāhanga hoki mō tēnei Rōpū, ka werohia hoki ki te kano ārai mate ko ērā kei te takiwā hauora (DHB) o te tonga o Tāmaki kua 65+ ngā tau, ko ērā rānei e raru nei ō rātou pūnaha awhikiri, ko ērā rānei e hauā ana. Ka werohia te Rōpū 2 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Maehe ki a Mei, i te tau 2021. I te Rōpū 3, ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ko ngā tāngata kua 65+ ngā tau, ko ērā e raru nei ō rātou pūnaha awhikiri, ko ērā rānei e hauā ana, ko ērā pakeke hoki e tautiakina ana e te ture. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ngā āhuatanga e kīia ai kua raru te pūnaha awhikiri ko te manawa toto pūroto, ko te toto pōrutu, ko te roro ikura, ko te matehuka, ko ngā mate mau tonu ki te pukapuka, ko te mate tākihi me te mate pukupuku. Ka rere ngā werohanga o te Rōpū 3 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Mei o te 2021 ā haere ake. I te Rōpū 4, ka wātea te huarahi kia werohia ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 ko ērā atu tāngata katoa kua 16 tau te pakeke, kua pakeke ake rānei i tērā, kāore anō kia whakatōngia ki te kano ārai mate. Kāore anō kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te werohia o ngā tāngata e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke ki te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech. Ka rere ngā werohanga o te Rōpū 4 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Hūrae o te tau 2021 ā haere ake. Ahakoa mā te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e ārai atu te wheori ā haere ake nei, me kaha tonu tātou katoa ki te whai wāhi ki te aukatinga o KOWHEORI-19 i ō tātou hapori. Me ū tonu tātou ki ngā tikanga matua e 4: te horoi ringaringa, te karapa i ngā tohu āurupare wawe (QR), te whakakā i te hono iarere (Bluetooth) me te noho i te kāinga ina pāngia e te māuiui. Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i te wā o te werohia ou Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta mai i muri i te werohia ōu Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Last updated: 19 December 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ko te pare atu i te mate korona i Aotearoa, te mahi tiaki rawa i a tātou. Mai i te 11:59pm i te 25 o Kohitātea 2021, katoa ngā tāngata e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa, hāunga anō ērā o Ahitereiria, o Anatātika, o Rarotonga, o ngā Moutere o Maikoronihia, o Whīti, o Kiripati, o ngā Moutere Māhara, o Nauru, o Niu Karetōnia, o Niue, o Parau, o Hāmoa, o ngā Motu Horomona, o Tokerau, o Tonga, o Tuwaru, o Whenuatū, o Uwea me Whutuna, me mātua whakamātautau mō te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau, e 72 hāora i mua i te wehetanga, ka mutu ka whakaatu mai hoki i te tiwhikete taiwhanga pūtaiao, i tētahi atu momo taunakitanga tōtika rānei. E whakaaetia ana hoki te katoa o ngā whakamātau PCR , whakamātau LAMP me ngā whakamātau kita whakamate mō tēnei whakamātau tōmua. Me mahi atu ngā whakamātautau katoa e tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao. E whakaaetia ana hoki ngā tiwhikete tohuora kua tuhia ki reo kē. E whakawāteatia ana i te whakamātau tōmua ko ngā tamariki kāore anō kia rua tau (24 marama) te pakeke. E whakawāteatia ana i te whakamātau tōmua ko te tangata haere mai ki Aotearoa he tiwhikete tohuora tāna e tohu ana kua ora ake ia i te KOWHEORI-19, e kore hoki e pāngia tētahi atu ki taua mate e ia. Ko ngā tāngata haere kāore e taea te whakamātau nā tētahi take hauora, me mātua toro ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō wehetanga. Me mātua homai e te tākuta he tiwhikete tohuora e whakaatu ana he take hauora kē i kore ai koe e whakamātauria, ā, kāore hoki ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e rere ana koe ki whenua kē mā Aotearoa, ā, kāore koe e puta i te taiwhanga whakawhiti waka rererangi, e whakawāteatia ana koe i te whakamātau tōmua. E kaha ana te whakahau ki te hunga haere kia whakapā atu ki ō rātou kamupene rererangi kei tūpono he whakaritenga anō ā rātou mō ngā whakamātau tōmua. Me mōhio anō hoki ki ngā whakaritenga a ērā atu whenua e whakawhiti atu ai rātou. Mai i te 8 o Huitanguru, katoa ngā pāhihi ka tae mai ki Aotearoa (i tua atu i ērā nō ngā whenua i whakawāteatia), kāore he tohu whakaatu i te korenga o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā rānei he tiwhikete tohuora, tērā pea e whiua ki te whaina, piki atu ki te $1,000. Hei te taunga mai ki Aotearoa, ko ngā tāngata haere mai katoa: He werohanga ihu PCR te momo whakamātautau nei. Ka 24-28 hāora kia hoki mai ngā whakataunga whakamātautau. Me he korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau, ka noho tonu te tangata ki te puni whakamohoao mō te roanga atu o ngā rā 14. Ka whakamātauria anō i te takiwā o te rā 3 me te rā 12 o tā rātou noho. Mō te katoa tonu o ngā tāngata, me korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakaae hoki e tō mātou kāhui hauora he iti te tūpono kei te kawea haere te mate korona, kua pāngia rānei ki ētahi atu kātahi anō ka whakaaetia te wehe atu i te puni whakamohoao. Mehemea he mate korona te whakatau, ka tōmua ake te neke i te tangata ki te whaitua taratahi, tēnā i kore ai te whakamātautau i te rā 0. Hei tūwatawata anō te whakamātautau o te rā 0 hei ārai atu i a KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, tae atu ki ōna putanga kētanga hou kua ara ake i tāwāhi, me te tere ake o te horapa haere. Mō ngā tino kōrero o te wā e pā ana ki te mate korona, tēnā peka ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki ngā puni whakamohoao, me ngā whaitua taratahi, haere ki tēnei: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) Last updated: 9 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. I tēnei wā, he ritenga Taratahi-Kore tō Aotearoa me ēnei motu: Ko te tikanga o te Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te neke mai i tētahi motu ki tētahi me te kore noho taratahi inā ka tae atu koe. Kāore hoki he take o te whakamātautau i mua i tāu wehenga. Ka taea e te tangata te Haere Taratahi-Kore noa inā tatū ngā paearu ritenga, me ngā ritenga take manene o te motu e haere nā koe. I tēnei wā, ko ngā Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te haere i waenganui o Aotearoa me tētahi atu motu anake. Hei tauira, ka āhei koe ki te Haere Taratahi-Kore i waenganui o Kūki Airani me Aotearoa, engari me noho taratahi rawa koe mō te 14 rā i mua i te haerenga ki te whenua Taratahi-Kore o Ahitereiria. Māna kei te noho kape koe, me mau ārai kanohi, uhi kanohi rānei inā haere mai ana koe ki Aotearoa, inā wehe atu ana rānei. Me mau ārai kanohi hoki koe i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui katoa o Aotearoa. Ko ētahi anō tāngata kāore he take ki te mau ārai kanohi. Ki te panoni Te Pae Mataara ki Aotearoa, ki te rerekē rānei te āhuatanga ki tētahi motu Haere Taratahi-Kore, ka pāhongia e tēnei pae tukutuku ( covid19.govt.nz ), me ngā pae tukutuku rongo kōrero. Ki te puta anō te mate ki te hapori i Aotearoa nei, i tētahi motu Taratahi-Kore rānei, tērā ka whakatūria e te Kāwanatanga te haere taratahi-kore hei aromātai i te tūraru, tērā rānei hīkina ngā haerenga mō tētahi wā roa ake. Me whai mahere te hunga haere, me rite hoki mō te tūpono raru rānei i ōu haerenga. Tirohia mai ngā whakamārama hou rawa mō Te Haere Taratahi-Kore E āhei ai koe ki te haere taratahi-kore ki Aotearoa: Tāutangia, whakamahia hoki te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Kāore he raru nō Aotearoa rānei tō waea pūkoro, tō kaute Āporo, tō kaute Kūkara rānei, mō te tāuta i te Kaiaru KOWHEORI. Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā kei a koe ngā tohumate o te hūwiniwini, o te rewharewha o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki: Mā te mātanga hauora e tohu atu mēnā me whakamātautau koe. Tēnā waea atu ki tō rata i mua i tō haerenga atu mēnā he tohumate ōu. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Ahitereiria: I a koe i Ahitereiria, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. Mō ngā whakamārama mõ te KOWHEORI-19, mō ngā wāhi aronui, mō ngā tūāhua haerenga (tae atu ki ngā haerenga o te motu) me ngā whakamātautau, haere koa ki te pae tukutuku o te rohe kei reira koe. E whai ake nei ko ngā pārongo KOWHEORI-19 mō ia rohe, mō ia takiwā rānei: Arā tonu tētahi taupānga aru mō Ahitereiria whānui, engari he taupānga kē tō te nuinga o ia rohe o ia takiwā. Ka taea e koe te tāuta i te nuinga o ēnei taupānga me te kāri SIM o Aotearoa. Me whai pea koe i tētahi kāri SIM o Ahitereiria, i ngā taipitopito whakapā o Ahitereiria rānei, hei whakamahi i ētahi o ēnei taupānga. Ko tā mātou ki a koutou, me puri ēnei taupānga ki tō waea mō te 1 marama, mō te tūpono whiwhi whakatūpatotanga koe whai muri i tō wehenga atu i te rohe. Ki te kore e taea, e pīrangitia rānei te whakamahi i te taupānga, me whakamahi rawa e koe ngā taupānga a ngā pakihi ake me ngā toa ake, i mua i tō takiurutanga. Tāutangia ngā taupānga ā-rohe: Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka waea atu ki te rata mō ētahi āwhina. Waea atu ki te nama waea ā-Motu mō te rongoā ārai mate korona, KOWHEORI-19, ki te nama waea 1800 020 080 . Kāore he utu mō te waea atu i roto o Ahitereiria. Ka āhei ki te waea atu i ngā haora 24 o te rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Kūki Airani: I a koe i Kūki Airani, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. He whakamārama anō kei te pae tukutuku a te Kāwanatanga o Kūki Airani (external link) He pūnaha rerekē tō Kūki Airani. Māu rawa e: Ka mahi tahi te taupānga CookSafe+ me te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Ko ngā waehere (ngā kī rānei) o Bluetooth ka tonoa mai, ka kohia rānei e te taupānga i tō waea mā tētahi o ngā taupānga nei, ka tuwhera anō ki tētahi atu. Ka mahi ngātahi ngā taupānga nei, ā, ka tangi te tūtei mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga i pāngia nei e te KOWHEORI-19. Mō ētahi atu whakamārama mō te KĀRI QR o CookSafe (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i Kūki Airani, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka ūhia tō kanohi, mēnā he uhi kanohi tōu. Kaua e whakamahi i ngā waka tūmatanui. Waea atu ki te waea-hauora Healthline o Kūki Airani i te nama waea 29667 mō ētahi āwhina. Last updated: 1 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Ki te kore e taea e koe te wehe i tō kāinga ki te tiki kai, me whai kia: Tērā tonu pea ka whai āwhina koe i Te Hiranga Tangata. Ehara i te mea me kiritaki kē koe nā Te Hiranga Tangata. Ki te totoa tō hiahia ki te whai kai i ngā hāora e 24-48 e whai ake nei, e pai ana hoki tō whakapā atu ki tētahi putunga kai o te rohe pātata. Rapua ngā putunga kai me ētahi atu ratonga tuku kai puta noa i Aotearoa (external link) Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi i te kāinga i a koe e tatari ana ki tō whakamātaunga Mate Korona, ka taea e tō kaitukumahi te tono kia utua kotahitia mai te $350 hei utu tonu i a koe. Kei te wātea hoki tēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi i te kāinga i a koe e noho whakamohoao ana ka taea e tō kaitukumahi te tono ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Ka kotahi putunga mai te utu ki ngā kaitukumahi, ā, ka utua mō te rua wiki mō ia kaimahi e whai wāhi mai ana, $585.80 mō ia kaimahi e mahi ana mō ngā haora 20 neke atu i ia wiki, ka $350 mō ia kaimahi e mahi ana mō ngā haora i raro i te 20 i ia wiki. Mēnā kua raru tō wāhi mahi i te huringa Pae Mataara, ka taea e tō kaitukumahi te tono ki te pūtea āwhina me te pūtea whakaara hei utu i a koe, kia whai mahi tonu koe. Mēnā kua poroa tō tūranga mahi, kua whakahekea rānei ō hāora mahi, he āwhina kei Te Hiranga Tangata mō te taha ki ngā utu totoa pēnei i ō te: Te tautoko ā-pūtea, ngā paearu whai wāhi me te ara hei tono, i te pae tukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Whakapā atu rānei ki Te Hiranga Tangata i; E āhei ana tā te hunga turi, tā te hunga kāore e rongo tika ana, tā te hunga kāore hoki e mārama ana te kōrero whakamahi i te Deaf Link i runga i te kore utu Waeahia te tau whawhati tata o te 111 mēnā e inamata ana te mōrearea ōu, o tētahi atu rānei  i te tūkino mai a tētahi, i te hiahia rānei o tētahi ki te tūkino i a ia anō. E hono ai koe ki ngā ratonga tautoko ā-pāpori i tō rohe pātata, waeahia te tau whai āwhina, 211 nei, o Ngā Ratonga ā-Whānau, te 0800 211 211 , toro atu rānei ki www.familyservices.govt.nz/directory/ (external link) He kupu ārahi, he tautoko, he whare haumaru hoki kei Te Punanga Wāhine mēnā kei te pā mai ngā mahi tūkino a tētahi ki tōu ao. 0800 733 843 He ratonga utu-kore te Tau-āwhina o Te Tūkino Kaumātua e wātea ana ki ngā kaumātua mēnā kei te tūkinotia rātou, kei te tūkinotia rānei tētahi atu e mōhiotia ana e rātou. 0800 32 668 65 E whai tautoko ai koe mō te mānukanuka, mō te ahotea, mō te oranga rānei o te hinengaro, waeahia, pātuhihia rānei te 1737 ki te kōrero ki tētahi kua whakangungua ki te āwhina, kāore nei he utu, i ngā hāora e 24 i ia rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E pai ana hoki tō whakapā atu ki te Tau-āwhina mō te Hinapōuri, ki te 0800 111 757 ki te Tau-āwhina hoki mō te Waipiro me te Whakapōauau, ki te 0800 787 797 . Last updated: 14 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. Last updated: 14 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link)  All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Encourage visitors to use NZ COVID Tracer You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages Last updated: 11 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Looking for information in other languages? Information in 20+ languages Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information about travelling on public transport and in private vehicles, and travelling between regions. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about how to travel to New Zealand, border controls when you arrive and registering with SafeTravel. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you cannot get home. Download and print resources — including posters for wearing face coverings on transport and tracking your journey. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information about travelling on public transport and in private vehicles, and travelling between regions. Advice on how to travel safely on public transport, including buses, trains, domestic flights, taxis and ride-shares. Advice for travelling in a private vehicle. Advice for travelling between different regions of New Zealand. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you’re living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you've been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering If you're sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP or Nurse Practitioner to find out if you should get a test. If you're advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses If you’re living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you’re sick, please don’t travel at all — stay home and get tested. Do not travel: You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Travel into, out of or through an Alert Level 3 area is restricted. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we can keep our loved ones and communities safe. Anyone wanting to travel between Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 regions needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. Alert Level boundaries interactive map If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you may need to apply for an exemption. Before applying you need to consider whether: At Alert Level 3 you can only travel locally, and for allowed reasons. For example, going to work or school if you must, or for shopping or to get exercise. Travelling on public transport Travelling in a private vehicle Last updated: 22 February 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Help limit the spread of any virus by staying at home if you are unwell. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 2, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area, for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. You can travel in a private car only for the following reasons: Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 3, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel into, through or out of an Alert Level 3 area needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. You may go in or out of an Alert Level 3 area but only if that travel is permitted under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order, or you have an exemption granted by the Director-General of Health under that Order. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. Information about regional travel Last updated: 19 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Help limit the spread of any virus by staying at home if you are unwell. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a COVID-19 test result or if you have been asked to self-isolate. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . Everyone 12 years and older legally must wear a face covering on public transport at all Alert Levels. Drivers of taxi and ride-share services legally must wear face coverings — while passengers do not need to, we strongly encourage you to. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 2, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use public transport for only the following reasons: Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services for only the following reasons: Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 3, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel into and out of an Alert Level 3 area needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. You may go in or out of an Alert Level 3 area but only if that travel is permitted under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Alert Level Requirements) Order, or you have an exemption granted by the Director-General of Health under that Order. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. Information about regional travel Last updated: 19 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can use international air services to travel home. However, there may be limited options available. If you cannot secure a ticket, contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. You may be required to self-isolate or enter managed isolation when you arrive, so it’s best to check it now. Embassies will be able to help you find information. You may find that you are not allowed to transit through certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they can let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, so make sure you book your flight before you arrive at the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours before departure. You are responsible for understanding how to meet the conditions of your visa in New Zealand at all times. Verify the details of current New Zealand visas (external link) Immigration NZ provides information on visa extensions, new visa expiry dates and changes to visa conditions. Visit the Immigration NZ website to check information about your visa. Visa extensions and visa conditions — Immigration NZ (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand (external link) Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are stranded in New Zealand and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in in New Zealand Last updated: 22 September 2020 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. How to plan your travel to New Zealand and what will happen when you arrive. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except Australia and the Cook Islands. For Australia and the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas  If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries and territories. Make sure you check what you need to do before you travel, and what you might have to do if the COVID-19 situation changes. You can travel from New Zealand to Australia without needing to enter managed isolation. You must meet immigration requirements and eligibility criteria. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Australia From 17 May, you can travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands without needing to enter managed isolation. You must meet immigration requirements and eligibility criteria. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) Last updated: 17 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. To transit New Zealand, you must: You can transit through New Zealand for up to 24 hours. If you’re staying longer, you must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. Immigration NZ explains who can transit New Zealand without an NZeTA or transit visa, and who needs one. Who can transit New Zealand — Immigration NZ (external link) If you’re going to be transiting for longer than 72 hours, you’ll need a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. If you’re in New Zealand for longer than 72 hours, you’ll need to stay in managed isolation and will need to apply for an exemption. Before leaving managed isolation you’ll need to: If you are granted a transit exemption, you’ll be provided with transport to and from your managed isolation facility. The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) If you are transiting through New Zealand and you are staying airside, you do not need to get a pre-departure test. Staying airside means you stay in the airport and you do not go through Customs to enter New Zealand. If you are not staying airside while you’re transiting, you must get a pre-departure test. People from some countries do not need to get a pre-departure test. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Last updated: 28 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: From 11:59pm on 28 April 2021, travel from very high risk countries will be temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India, Brazil, Papua New Guinea and Pakistan. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from Australia, the Cook Islands and Niue can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Our quarantine-free travel arrangements apply to the aviation (air) border only. Maritime (sea) borders are closed at this time. Quarantine-free travel There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) If you're travelling to New Zealand, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands do not need to get pre-departure tests. 28 May 2021: Travellers who have been in the state of Victoria in Australia on or after 20 May and are landing in New Zealand from anywhere in Australia after 11:59pm (NZT) on 31 May must have a negative pre-departure test. Travellers from Australia who do not meet these requirements and who are otherwise allowed to fly to New Zealand do not need a pre-departure test. Pre-departure testing requirements for travellers who have been in Victoria You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Due to a current surge in cases of returnees, the Government has created a new ‘very high risk’ country category. This will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil, India, Pakistan and Papua New Guinea. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. We recommend you contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. Contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from or transiting through areas affected by border measures. Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessels can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visa information for critical workers in the maritime sector (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: More help from SafeTravel (external link) Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. You can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility in either destination. Quarantine-free travel with Australia You can now travel from the Cook Islands or Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. Quarantine-free travel is available in both directions for the Cook Islands, but just one way for Niue — from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. You will not be able to go to the shops when you first arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. What to bring with you to New Zealand (external link) Keep yourself, your whānau and those around you safe while travelling to New Zealand. Doing these things will help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it home with you. What happens when you arrive back in New Zealand depends on whether you arrive by air or sea. Arriving in New Zealand and being transferred to a managed isolation or quarantine facility (external link) Entering a managed isolation facility, and what to expect (external link) When you arrive by air, you will be screened for cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms at the airport. If you have symptoms or are waiting for the results of a test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to a managed isolation facility. Both types of facilities are in hotels. When you arrive by sea, you may complete your isolation on your vessel. International transit through New Zealand Last updated: 3 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Almost all travellers are legally required to have a voucher confirming their place in managed isolation before boarding their flight. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 100,000 people have completed their managed isolation or quarantine stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. When you arrive in New Zealand you are checked for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter managed isolation and so you do not need a voucher. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Managed Isolation and Quarantine has introducing a ‘cohorting’ system to its facilities. Cohorting is also known as ‘group intake’. Cohorting means that returnees arriving in New Zealand in a 96-hour window will all go to the same facility. They will do this until the facility is full or the 96 hours are over. After this, no more returnees will enter the facility until the last of the group has completed their stay and the facility has been cleaned. Cohorting will keep recent arrivals in the same facility together, and will keep those who are just completing their stay away from new arrivals. Doing this reduces the risk of transmitting COVID-19 inside the facilities. Special purpose facilities will not use cohorting, for example Jet Park, which is a quarantine facility. You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your managed isolation facility to complete the rest of your stay. You will be tested for COVID-19 again around day 3 and day 12 of your stay. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Exemptions from managed isolation are approved in very few circumstances. Applications for exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website has information about exemptions, including: How to apply for an exemption from managed isolation (external link) Last updated: 2 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Pre-departure testing is one of the ways we are reducing the risk of infection on international flights. Who does, and who does not, need to get a pre-departure test before arriving in New Zealand. Approved test results and certificates, finding a testing location and what to do if your flight is cancelled or delayed. What you need to present to officials, and day 0/1 testing after you arrive in New Zealand. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You are responsible for bringing your test results or medical certificate to the airport and providing the required information. Without the information you may be denied boarding and be subject to an infringement fine. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: Either a hard copy or an electronic copy (email/text message) of your negative test result, or a Fit to Fly Certificate, will be accepted. A text message will be accepted only if it includes an image of the laboratory result form. Hold on to all documents and treat your negative test results and Managed Isolation voucher with the same importance as your passport — you may be asked to show these as you transit and on arrival in New Zealand. Pre-departure testing is an additional measure to further reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases in New Zealand, in line with our elimination strategy. It is complementary to existing testing requirements, such as day 0/1 testing, and does not duplicate them. Travellers to New Zealand are required to undergo day 0/1 testing within 24 hours of arriving at a managed isolation and quarantine facility. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands are exempt from day 0/1 testing. If you’re asked for evidence of your negative COVID-19 test result or a medical certificate, and you cannot provide it, you may be denied boarding. You will be asked to provide this information to a Customs officer when entering New Zealand. All travellers arriving in New Zealand after 8 February 2021 without evidence of a negative approved test may incur an infringement offence fee or a fine not exceeding $1,000. The pre-departure test is a measure to keep us all safe. Most airlines already require travellers to have a pre-departure test and provide evidence of a negative result before boarding a plane. Pre-departure tests are also a legal requirement for most countries that are transit hubs. Last updated: 29 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Ministry of Health has confirmed the following types of tests are acceptable by the New Zealand Director-General of Health: All tests must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. If you choose to take an at-home COVID-19 test, it must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: Either a hard copy or an electronic copy (email/text message) of your negative test result, or a Fit to Fly Certificate, will be accepted. A text message will be accepted only if it includes an image of the laboratory result form. Hold on to all documents and treat your negative test results and Managed Isolation voucher with the same importance as your passport — you may be asked to show these as you transit and on arrival in New Zealand. You should also check the requirements of other countries you are going to be transiting through. They may have requirements that are different to what New Zealand requires. Learn more about the Ministry of Health testing requirements (external link) The Government has created a new ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. From 11:59pm on 28 April 2021, a ll travellers from very high risk countries must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test from an accredited laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries (external link) If you are unable to take a test for medical reasons you are required to provide a medical certificate. A Fit to Fly Certificate will be accepted as proof of pre-departure testing documentation if it is consistent with both the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order requirements and the subsequent Gazetted requirements regarding pre-departure testing. Acceptable Fit to Fly Certificates must contain the following six elements: If your test result record does not provide this information, you may be prevented from boarding the aircraft. Please ensure this information will be provided to you by your testing facility when you get tested. You can get tested at a range of airports, or from private laboratories. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. You should contact the local health authority of the country that you are in for information about COVID-19 testing locations and booking arrangements (if available). Most health authorities advertise COVID-19 testing locations on their websites. If you have a positive pre-departure test, but believe this is because of a historical COVID-19 infection, you need to see a medical practitioner who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not currently have a COVID-19 infection, you will need them to provide a medical certificate with the date of your previous positive test (if applicable) and documentation stating that they consider you as no longer being infectious with COVID-19. It may take time to get an appointment, so if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3 months, book your medical examination in advance of receiving your test results. You should also check with your airlines about any regulations they may have in place regarding past COVID-19 infections. If you test positive, you may not be able to board your flight. You should postpone your travel and follow local public health advice. If you choose to travel at a later date when you have recovered, you will be required to get a medical certificate within 72 hours from the time of departure that confirms that you had a positive COVID-19 test but have now recovered. If your negative test result does not arrive in time for your flight, you can reschedule your flight for no more than 24 hours later, even if this takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled time of your first flight. If your flight is cancelled, the requirement would remain that you need to have had a test with a negative result no more than 72 hours before departure of your new flight. If your flight is delayed by 24 hours or less and you have a negative result, you can still travel, even if it takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first flight. You need to keep a record of your original scheduled flight for presenting to airline staff and Customs officers. Travellers are responsible for testing costs. You should work with airlines to rebook your flights, and contact Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) about your placement. MIQ is working hard to accommodate travellers that might be impacted by the new testing requirements. If you are impacted by the pre-departure testing requirements you should work with your airline to rebook your flights and contact MIQ for information about your MIQ placement. Contact MIQ about your placement (external link) If you need consular assistance, contact the Embassy, High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. What happens after you arrive in New Zealand, like presenting your test results to officials and getting a day 0/1 test when you enter a managed isolation facility. After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Last updated: 29 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government has been monitoring overseas developments and is concerned about high rates of infection and new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. This additional measure reduces the risk of infected travellers on international flights infecting other travellers. The Government now requires all travellers to New Zealand (except those from exempt locations) to have a COVID-19 test taken and a negative result returned within 72 hours of their first scheduled international flight. If you are planning to travel to New Zealand soon, it is a good idea to work out how you will be able to get your pre-departure test results within 72 hours of your departure. Contact your airline for more information about flights and any pre-departure requirements. 4 June 2021 update: Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. Children under 2 years of age (24 months) do not need to take a pre-departure test. Children over the age of 2 (24 months) will need evidence of a negative pre-departure test. Locations included are Antarctica, the Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Palau, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu. 4 June 2021: Pre-departure testing requirements for travellers who have been in Victoria Locations included are Albania, Belize, Dominica, Kenya, Laos, Montenegro, Myanmar, Slovenia, St Kitts and Nevis, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. These locations are exempt as they are unable to provide pre-departure testing for travellers to the standard required by New Zealand. Instead, travellers from these locations must obtain a certificate from a medical practitioner (including a person who is registered or licensed as an equivalent health professional overseas). This needs to be obtained no more than 72 hours before the journey begins confirming they do not have symptoms which indicate that they are likely to transmit COVID-19. Travellers need to produce this certificate when requested by the following: All arrivals from these locations are still required to complete 14 days in managed isolation. They are also subject to day 0/1, day 3 and day 12 testing during their stay If you cannot take a test due to medical reasons, you will need to see a medical practitioner within 72 hours of your departure. They will examine you for symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not have symptoms of COVID-19, they will need to provide you a medical certificate stating you cannot take a test due to medical reasons but do not have symptoms. This will be accepted as meeting the pre-departure testing requirements. If you have a positive pre-departure test, but believe this is because of a historical COVID-19 infection, you need to see a medical practitioner who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not currently have a COVID-19 infection, you will need them to provide a medical certificate with the date of your previous positive test (if applicable) and documentation stating that they consider you as no longer being infectious with COVID-19. It may take time to get an appointment, so if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3 months, book your medical examination in advance of receiving your test results. You should also check with your airlines about any regulations they may have in place regarding past COVID-19 infections. If you have received a COVID-19 vaccination you will still need to take a test. If you return a positive result, you will need a medical certificate verifying that you are not infectious with COVID-19. You should factor this into your timings, and check with your airlines on any regulations they may have in place regarding vaccinations. What you need to do before you travel, including getting an approved test result, finding a testing location and what to do if your negative test result does not arrive in time. What to do before you travel — pre-departure testing Last updated: 28 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. You will be invited to do the survey if you’ve recently arrived in New Zealand and you’re 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you’re having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after they have sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz Last updated: 5 March 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Government has created a ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Travellers to New Zealand from very high risk countries are temporarily restricted to: Partners of New Zealand citizens can be a spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner. If you're a non-New Zealand citizen, you must hold a valid visa to enter New Zealand. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ (external link) All travellers from very high risk countries must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test result from a government-approved laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. The Ministry of Health publishes lists of laboratories in very high risk countries that are approved to conduct COVID-19 tests. Lists of approved laboratories (external link) All other travellers, including people holding residence class visas, must spend at least 14 days outside of very high risk countries before flying to New Zealand. You can transit through a very high risk country without having to spend 14 days outside the country before you travel to New Zealand. There is no limit on the amount of time you may spend transiting through a very high risk country, but you must remain airside. This means you'll remain at the airport and not enter the country. The Director-General of Health may grant exemptions for humanitarian reasons. You can find out more about the exemptions process at the Managed Isolation and Quarantine website. Apply for an exemption (external link) Countries have been designated very high risk where: Resurgence of COVID-19 is happening in a number of countries, and there are further waves of infections in many countries as new variants of the COVID-19 virus arise. This means New Zealand expects to see more returnees with COVID-19 from these areas. This increase in cases will place pressure on our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) systems and workforce and increase the risk of a community outbreak. The New Zealand Government has responded by creating a very high risk country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The Government will review this decision regularly. If you're a New Zealander in a very high risk country, make sure you register your travel and contact details with SafeTravel. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: Register at SafeTravel (external link) In the 14 days before leaving there are things you can do to help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it to New Zealand with you: Last updated: 10 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: More help from SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: From 11:59pm on 28 April 2021, travel from very high risk countries will be temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India, Brazil, Papua New Guinea and Pakistan. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from Australia, the Cook Islands and Niue can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Our quarantine-free travel arrangements apply to the aviation (air) border only. Maritime (sea) borders are closed at this time. Quarantine-free travel There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Plan your travel to New Zealand It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you're in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) Last updated: 1 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. You can travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in Australia. What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in New Zealand. Information about quarantine-free travel between Victoria, Australia and New Zealand. Information about quarantine-free travel between New South Wales and New Zealand. This is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. When travelling to Australia, you’ll need to keep track of the COVID-19 situation and play your part in stopping any spread back to New Zealand. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we’d handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, such as timing and location, it’s useful to know what to expect. This is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. For example, case linked to the border — there is low risk of further transmission. Flights to and from Australia likely to continue. Follow local health instructions. Keep a record of your movements. If you’re unwell, stay home or in your accommodation. Get a COVID-19 test if you have any symptoms. For example, case of unknown source, but most likely linked to the border. State enters a short-term lockdown. Flights to and from affected state or states may be paused for up to 72 hours. Follow instructions from the state you're in. If you're unwell or have symptoms, get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline, and check your travel insurance. When returning to New Zealand, travellers from affected state may be asked to: For example, multiple cases of unknown source. State enters longer-term lockdown. Flights to and from affected state or states may be suspended for an extended period. Follow instructions from the state you're in. If you're unwell or have symptoms, get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline, and check your travel insurance. When returning to New Zealand, travellers may be asked to: What to do when you arrive in Australia, including local COVID-19 websites and COVID-19 tracer apps Last updated: 6 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. A person has visited some locations in New South Wales while possibly infectious with COVID-19. They later returned a positive COVID-19 test when they returned to Melbourne. The person was in Jervis Bay, Goulburn, Hyams Beach and Vincentia while potentially infectious from 19 May to 24 May. If you were at a location of interest in New South Wales, Australia on 23 May and 24 May 2021: Locations of interest in New South Wales (external link) If you visited a location of interest at the stated times: Check the locations of interest in New South Wales, Australia (external link) Keep checking the locations of interest webpage to see if more have been added. Follow the isolation and testing advice on the New South Wales government website. If you were at a location of interest, you must not travel to New Zealand from any border in Australia within 14 days of exposure — even if you have a negative COVID-19 test. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. If you visited New South Wales from 19 May to 24 May or Victoria from 11 May and are now in New Zealand, there are some things you need to do. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, you must do the following: These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Last updated: 4 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in New Zealand. Who can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand, criteria you must meet and how you need to be prepared if your travel is disrupted. What to expect at the airport when you depart, while travelling and when you arrive in New Zealand. While you’re here in Aotearoa New Zealand, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your family and the communities you’re visiting safe from COVID-19. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. While you’re here in Aotearoa New Zealand, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. We strongly encourage travellers from Australia to understand how New Zealand is responding to COVID-19, and the rules and techniques we use to keep each other safe. You can find information on this website. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you’ve visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. There will be a QR code at the airport that you can scan to get the app. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. This means you can receive an alert through the app if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. If you register your contact details in the app, health authorities can contact you if you may have been exposed. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of the 3 Ws: You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you’re offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you're helping keep everyone safe. COVID-19 symptoms include: COVID-19 symptoms New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to any quarantine-free travel arrangement being paused for a time. The New Zealand Government may pause it while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Talk to your travel insurer about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption or illness. Have a plan for what to do if your return to Australia is delayed. You may need to be prepared for a longer stay in New Zealand than you planned. You may need to meet any costs for this — check with your travel insurer. You should also be prepared for the possibility of entering managed isolation or self-isolation on your return to Australia. Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check them regularly for updates that may affect you. Follow our social media Check with your airline for any changes to your travel conditions. Check Smartraveller.gov.au for information about travelling safely and what to do if you need help while in New Zealand. Smartraveller.gov.au (external link) If you're travelling back to Australia, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Even if you are an Australian citizen or permanent resident, you still must complete the travel declaration before you depart New Zealand. What to do before you travel from New Zealand to Australia Last updated: 27 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. You will be asked these questions at the check-in kiosk. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms include: If you are unwell, stay at home and call a doctor for advice. Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the online travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart Australia. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — please use Google Chrome or another browser. Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight to New Zealand, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in New Zealand, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You may need to go into a managed isolation facility. If you do, you may need to pay for your stay there. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand All travellers from quarantine-free flights, or ‘green flights’, will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you’re in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We strongly encourage travellers from Australia to understand how New Zealand is responding to COVID-19, and the rules and techniques we use to keep each other safe. You can find information on this website. About New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert system New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You’ll need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. Last updated: 29 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart for New Zealand. You cannot board your flight until you and your travelling companions have completed one, or had one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You need to have spent the 14 full days before your date of departure in either Australia or New Zealand. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. All other normal entry requirements apply, for example immigration and biosecurity. Quarantine-free travel is only available when the New Zealand Government’s health preconditions have been met and when travel is low risk. Quarantine-free flights are sometimes called ‘green flights’. A green flight coming to New Zealand from Australia only carries passengers who have been in Australia or New Zealand in the past 14 days. These flights will also be flown by crew who have not flown on any high-risk routes for a set period of time. A ‘red flight’ carries passengers from countries outside of a quarantine-free travel arrangement, or from within a quarantine-free area with passengers that do not meet the eligibility criteria. Red flight passengers must enter managed isolation or quarantine when they arrive in New Zealand. It will not be possible to book a red flight from Australia to New Zealand from 19 April. Every flight from Australia to New Zealand from that time will be a green flight. Some airlines are continuing to operate red flights from other countries that transit Australia en route to New Zealand. When quarantine-free travel to New Zealand begins, people in Australia who meet the eligibility criteria can fly quarantine-free to New Zealand. If you’re outside Australia, you can fly quarantine-free to New Zealand once you have met Australia’s managed isolation and quarantine requirements. You will also need to meet immigration rules and eligibility criteria. Currently, quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Australian and New Zealand citizens may travel between Australia and New Zealand without a visa or New Zealand electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). All other travellers must hold a visa or NZeTA. Some people can travel to New Zealand without a visa if they get an NZeTA before they travel. You can travel to New Zealand on an NZeTA if you are travelling on a passport from a visa waiver country, you're a cruise ship passenger or you're a permanent resident of Australia. You must request your NZeTA before you travel. Request an NZeTA (external link) Citizens from other countries can also apply for a visa to enter New Zealand. Visas to enter New Zealand from Australia (external link) If you require a visa in order to travel to New Zealand, you can apply for one, provided you are in and intend to travel from a quarantine-free travel area when you apply. For example, if you intend to travel directly to New Zealand from the Cook Islands, you must be in the Cook Islands to apply for a visa under normal immigration requirements. Any visa granted for travel from within a quarantine-free travel area will only be valid for travel from within the quarantine-free travel area. If you travel outside of New Zealand or a quarantine-free travel area you will not be able to use this visa to re-enter New Zealand. For example, if you are granted a visa in Australia and then travel to Fiji, your visa will not allow you to re-enter New Zealand from Fiji. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from Australia. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed on their behalf. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. You will be asked these questions at the check-in kiosk. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. The COVID-19 symptoms include: You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. The New Zealand Government has signalled that if there are community cases of COVID-19 in Australia and flights are paused, it may require people travelling to or returning to New Zealand to get tested for COVID-19 before travelling. If there is a change in Alert Level in New Zealand or the situation changes in Australia, Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and news websites will announce it. You can also find information on this website about what to do at different Alert Levels. If community cases occur in New Zealand or Australia, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted.  Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to Australia is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You may also need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to Australia. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If you're about to return to New Zealand from Australia and the COVID-19 situation changes, you may need to enter managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from Australia, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in New Zealand if required. You need to ensure you can meet the entry criteria for Australia on your return. Immigration information at Department of Home Affairs — Australian Government (external link) Once quarantine-free travel begins, you will not be able to register for a voucher or book a place in MIQ. Quarantine-free flights will be excluded from the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you already have an MIQ booking and you are now travelling on a quarantine-free flight into New Zealand, please cancel your voucher. This frees up space for returnees from other countries. If you are not sure if your flight is quarantine free, talk to your airline.  If you're arriving from Australia just before quarantine-free travel begins, you will still need to go into managed isolation and complete the full 14 days. Over 400,000 passports belonging to New Zealanders have expired since our borders closed last year. If you need to renew your passport, apply now to avoid the rush when quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and Australia opens on 19 April. Apply for a passport (external link) Processing times may be longer than usual. If you need to travel same day or within 2 days, call 0800 22 50 50 from within New Zealand or +64 4 462 0650 from overseas. Last updated: 28 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in Australia. Who can travel quarantine-free to Australia, criteria you must meet and how you need to be prepared if your travel is disrupted. What to expect at the airport when you depart, while travelling and when you arrive in Australia. While you’re in Australia, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you’re visiting safe from COVID-19. Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. COVID-19 information for travellers arriving in the green travel zone — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and call a doctor for advice. If you want to talk to someone about your symptoms, call the National coronavirus and COVID-19 vaccine helpline on 1800 020 080 . Calls are free from Australia, and you can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There is an Australia-wide contact tracing app, but most states and territories use their own apps. Download and use the app for wherever you are to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you’re visiting safe. You can download and use most of these apps with a New Zealand SIM card. You may need an Australian SIM card or Australian contact details to use some of these apps. We recommend you keep the apps on your phone for up to 1 month, in case you receive an alert after you've left the state. If you cannot or choose not to use an app, make sure you sign in to businesses and venues with their alternative contact tracing system. Download contact tracing apps: If you cannot or choose not to use these apps, you need to to sign in to businesses and venues with their alternative contact tracing system. If you wish, you can also keep track of where you’ve been with your own pen and paper, a photo record or you could take a copy of the NZ COVID Tracer booklet with you. Download My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Each state or territory has its own rules, for example for gatherings, physical distancing, face coverings, testing and travel. Check the website of the state you’re in to find out what you need to do when you’re there. State and territory COVID-19 websites If you forgot to register at SafeTravel before you left New Zealand, we encourage you to do so now to get travel advice for Australia. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: Register at SafeTravel (external link) If there is a change in Australia’s COVID-19 situation, for example cases in the community, check the COVID-19 website for the state or territory you’re in. They will tell you what you need to do. State and territory COVID-19 websites You should also check the Australian Government Department of Health website for advice. Department of Health — Australian Government (external link) Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check this website, your local COVID-19 website and news sources regularly for updates that may affect you. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we'd handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, like timing and location, it's useful to know what to expect. Here is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in Australia for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in Australia, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in Australia if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. Visit the Department of Health website for the latest advice, information and resources. Department of Health — Australian Government (external link) If you need information about COVID-19, call the National coronavirus and COVID-19 helpline for free on 1800 020 080 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. To find information about COVID-19, locations of interest, travel conditions (including domestic travel) and testing, visit the website for the state you’re in. Information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to New Zealand's or Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check them regularly for updates that may affect you. Follow our social media Check with your airline for any changes to your travel conditions. If you're travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart Australia, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from Australia to New Zealand Last updated: 27 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. We recommend you wear a face covering while you’re in the airport. If you are unwell, you should not travel. Stay at home, and call Healthline for advice on 0800 611 116 . At the airport, your airline will decide whether you should be allowed to board. Make sure you bring evidence of any pre-existing conditions (for example hayfever) when you check in, to avoid being denied boarding.  Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering on the flight. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in Australia, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless you're exempt, you’ll need to wear a face covering while you’re in the airport. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) You may be screened for your health when you arrive in Australia. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. You will not come into contact with travellers from other countries. Check what you need to do for your next destination. Some states and territories may have requirements you need to meet, or may tell you to quarantine when you get there. Travel information about COVID-19 by state or territory:  Last updated: 23 April 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. All other normal entry requirements, for example immigration and biosecurity, apply. You can travel quarantine-free to all states and territories in Australia. 25 May: From 7:59pm on 25 May, travel from Victoria to New Zealand is paused. This applies to interstate travellers from Victoria. Information about quarantine-free travel between Victoria and New Zealand People in New Zealand who meet the eligibility criteria can fly quarantine-free to most states in Australia. If you’re outside New Zealand, you can fly quarantine-free to Australia once you have met New Zealand’s managed isolation and quarantine requirements. If you're travelling from a country that has a quarantine-free arrangement with New Zealand, for example the Cook Islands, you must stay in New Zealand for 14 days before you can continue your journey to Australia. You will also need to meet immigration rules and eligibility criteria. Currently, quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Normal immigration rules apply. This means if you usually need a visa, then you will need one to fly quarantine-free to Australia. If you plan to travel to Australia and return to New Zealand, you will need to make sure you meet the visa and entry requirements for Australia before you travel and ensure you have a valid New Zealand visa or NZeTA to return to New Zealand. Visas to enter Australia (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder in New Zealand, you should be aware that you need to meet New Zealand immigration requirements in order to return to New Zealand. This means you need to have a ‘multiple entry’ visa that gives permission to leave New Zealand and return, provided all entry requirements are met. To travel to Australia on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet some criteria. It is your responsibility to check the eligibility criteria for entering Australia. You will also need to check that the state or territory you want to land in, or travel onwards to, is accepting quarantine-free flights from New Zealand. The requirements for entering Australia could change at short notice. You also need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or Australia. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. Before you travel to Australia, you need to complete the Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart. This declaration collects your contact details in Australia, flight details and your health status. Australia Travel Declaration (external link) You may need to complete a travel declaration or apply for a travel permit for the state or territory you're travelling to. Travel declarations and travel permits You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to travel to Australia on a quarantine-free flight. Australia has sometimes introduced requirements for testing on arrival for people travelling from New Zealand. You should regularly check the requirements of the state you're arriving in. Australia’s states and territories may have their own restrictions and requirements, for example for pre-departure testing. Check what you need to do and what you need to know before you travel. You should also check what you need to do if you are travelling between states in Australia, as you may need to meet some requirements. Travel information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Some states and territories require you to complete or apply for a travel permit or travel declaration. This is in addition to the Australia Travel Declaration that you must complete before you can enter Australia. Some states only require you to complete one when there have been outbreaks of COVID-19. However, some states have made it compulsory for everyone to complete one, whether you're travelling from New Zealand or from another state. Make sure you check what you need to do before you travel to any state or territory in Australia, and that you complete any declarations or permits before you depart. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for Australia. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: Register at SafeTravel (external link) If there is a change in Alert Level in New Zealand or the situation changes in Australia, Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and news websites will announce it. You can also find information here about what to do at different Alert Levels. If community cases occur in New Zealand or Australia, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we'd handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, like timing and location, it's useful to know what to expect. Here is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed If there is a change in Australia’s COVID-19 situation, for example cases in the community, check the COVID-19 website for the state or territory you’re in. They will tell you what you need to do. Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in Australia for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Make sure you keep in contact with your employer if your return is delayed. If you’re an employer, make sure you know your workers’ rights in this situation. Guidance for workers and employers about quarantine-free travel (external link) You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in Australia, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in Australia if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. Over 400,000 passports belonging to New Zealanders have expired since our borders closed last year. If you need to renew your passport, apply now to avoid the rush when quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and Australia opens on 19 April. Apply for a passport (external link) Processing times may be longer than usual. If you need to travel same day or within 2 days, call 0800 22 50 50 from within New Zealand or +64 4 462 0650 from overseas.  Last updated: 25 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand  If you visited a location of interest or were in Victoria between 24 May and 4 June 2021: If you were at a location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from any border in Australia within 14 days of exposure — even if you have a negative COVID-19 test. Follow the isolation and testing advice on the Victoria or New South Wales government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Keep checking the locations of interest webpage to see if more have been added. People who have been in Victoria after 7:59pm (NZT) on 25 May, can fly to New Zealand. They will need to carry evidence of a negative pre-departure test administered no more than 72 hours before departure. People who have been in the Greater Melbourne lockdown area after 11:59pm (NZT) on 27 May, cannot fly to New Zealand. They will not be able to travel from Melbourne until return green flights commence. Return green flights from Melbourne to New Zealand are planned from Wednesday 9 June. How to book a return green flight from Melbourne from 9 June If you were at a location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from any border in Australia within 14 days of exposure — even if you have a negative COVID-19 test. If you were not at a location of interest, and you were in Victoria from 20 May, you must have a negative pre-departure test result within 72 hours of departure for New Zealand. You must keep evidence of your negative test on you throughout your journey. If you cannot show evidence of your negative test, you may not be allowed to board the plane or you may face penalties when you arrive in New Zealand. If you need help finding a testing location, call the Australian National coronavirus helpline on 1800 020 080 . Pre-departure tests cost around $120 to $180. You should not go to a free testing site, as their results may not have all the information needed for travel. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: Either a hard copy or an electronic copy (email/text message) of your negative test result, or a Fit to Fly Certificate, will be accepted. A text message will be accepted only if it includes an image of the laboratory result form. Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand  If you visited Victoria from 11 May and are now in New Zealand, there are some things you need to do. Check the locations of interest in Victoria, Australia (external link) If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, you must do the following: All testing for people who have been in Melbourne is free, even for visitors to New Zealand. If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you need a pre-departure test, call the Australian National coronavirus helpline on 1800 020 080 for help finding a location. Pre-departure tests cost around $120 to $180. You should not go to a free testing site for a pre-departure test, as their results may not have all the information needed for travel. Last updated: 8 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The following people can fly home from 9 June: But, if you were at a location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from any border in Australia within 14 days of exposure — even if you have a negative COVID-19 test. When the travel pause is lifted, return green flights will end.  Anyone flying home must: Pre-departure testing Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) (external link) New Zealand health officials have conducted an assessment of the public health risk and have determined that the risk to public health in New Zealand of people returning from Melbourne is low.  These are commercially operated flights. Please contact airlines to book your flight. You will need to pay the cost of your flight. If you want to transfer an existing ticket, you need to speak with your airline.  You must wear a face covering throughout your entire journey. If you fly on a return green flight, you do not need to go into managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. Book private transport to get to your home or accommodation, where possible. If you're using public transport, make sure you wear a face covering. Last updated: 4 June 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. From 17 May, you can travel quarantine-free to the Cook Islands. What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in the Cook Islands. What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in New Zealand. This is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases that affect quarantine-free travel between NZ and the Cook Islands. Last updated: 3 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. The Cook Islands has never had a COVID-19 case and New Zealand has a great record of eliminating the virus. It is everyone’s responsibility to keep it that way. When travelling to the Cook Islands or New Zealand you’ll need to keep track of the COVID-19 situation and play your part in stopping any spread. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear, but we do have a plan for how we’d handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances and location, it’s useful to have a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases when you are travelling on Cook Islands green flights. For example, quarantine-free travel is operating as intended and there is low risk of transmission. Flights to and from the Cook Islands likely to continue. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. Keep a record of your movements — use the local COVID-19 tracer app or keep a paper record. If unwell, do not travel — stay home or in your accommodation. Get a COVID-19 test if you have any symptoms. For example, case of unknown source, but most likely linked to border. Affected area enters short-term lockdown. Flights to and from the Cook Islands will be paused. We may move quickly from pause to suspension in the Cook Islands. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. If unwell or have symptoms get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline and check your travel insurance. When returning to the Cook Islands or NZ, travellers may be asked to: For example, confirmed case of unknown source. Country enters longer-term lockdown. Flights to and from the Cook Islands will be suspended for an extended period. Stay where you are, do not travel. Follow official instructions from the country you are in. If unwell or have symptoms get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline and check your travel insurance. Your return to NZ or the Cook Islands will be managed to minimise the risk of spread during travel. Travellers may be asked to: Be prepared: Check out eligibility, what to expect and keep an eye on updates on Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and Covid19.gov.ck (external link) Last updated: 3 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in New Zealand can travel quarantine-free to the Cook Islands, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. You can travel to the outer islands after you arrive in Rarotonga. You do not need to self-isolate in Rarotonga before you continue your journey to the outer islands. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only.  To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: Anyone can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for a stay of up to 31 days. The passport you hold does not matter. You must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. New Zealand and Australian passport holders need at least 7 days remaining on their passports from the date they leave the Cook Islands. All other passport holders need at least 6 months remaining. It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the Cook Islands’ immigration requirements. Travel information for the Cook Islands (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands — Immigration New Zealand (external link) You do not need a negative pre-departure COVID-19 test to travel to the Cook Islands. Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. While you’re in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you’re visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response — Cook Islands Government (external link) If you feel unwell while in the Cook Islands, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. Make sure you participate in the Cook Islands system to track people’s movements. Doing your part means you are part of the national effort to keep the Cook Islands COVID-19 free. The Cook Islands uses a system that's a little different to New Zealand’s: Keep reading to find out how to use your CookSafe QR Card, as this part is a little different to how we scan in here in New Zealand. When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at some locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Scan your QR Card at all locations with a ‘CookSafe Tag In Here’ sign. To scan in, hold your card in front of the scanning area of the device. The screen will appear green when you have successfully scanned in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in one contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you're in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall one app to be able to use the other. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you've been and who you've seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. The CookSafe+ app does not remove the need to scan in with your CookSafe QR Card. Remember to take your card with you everywhere you go. Any Bluetooth codes (or 'keys') that are sent or collected from your phone using one app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you're in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you've been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. Information about CookSafe+ app (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system (external link) On 2 February 2021, the Cook Islands declared a dengue 2 outbreak. Dengue is spread by the bite of an infected mosquito. The outbreak is ongoing and you should protect yourself and your loved ones against mosquito bites. Information about dengue — New Zealand Ministry of Health (external link) If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in the Cook Islands for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Make sure you keep in contact with your employer if your return is delayed. If you’re an employer, make sure you know your workers’ rights in this situation. Guidance for workers and employers about quarantine-free travel (external link) You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in the Cook Islands, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. If you’re travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands Last updated: 27 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart for New Zealand. You cannot board your flight until you and your travelling companions have completed one, or had one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in the Cook Islands can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa — Immigration New Zealand (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. The COVID-19 symptoms include: You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the online travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you’re in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you’ve been. New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You’ll need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you’ve visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. New Zealand's contact tracing system is a little different to the CookSafe+ app and CookSafe QR code Card system. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you’ve been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of the 3 Ws: You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you’re offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you're helping keep everyone safe. New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. How to travel back to the Cook Islands Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands Last updated: 19 May 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback
All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. What to do at Alert Level 1 New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel, quarantine-free travel, what happens when you arrive in New Zealand, and how to safely travel within New Zealand. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Guidance on everyday activities including life at home, shopping and going to events. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial hardship. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples and religious communities. Information in Niuean about quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand. Fenoga nakai nofo puipui mai Niue ki Niu Silani | Quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. If you're travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Currently, quarantine-free travel is also available from the Cook Islands and Australia to New Zealand. However, this does not mean there is a "travel bubble" between New Zealand, Niue, Australia and the Cook Islands. If you want to travel from Niue to the Cook Islands by transiting through New Zealand, you will have to stay in New Zealand for 14 days before you can travel onwards to the Cook Islands, and you have to be eligible to travel there. You could travel from New Zealand to Australia without needing to quarantine there if you have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more. You will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may still require you to quarantine when you arrive. You will need to complete an Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart for Australia. Make sure you check the requirements you need to meet with the Australian Government and with your airline. These can change at short notice. Guidance on travelling from New Zealand to Australia (external link) If you’re in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine free, you must meet the following conditions: Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face covering at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility for 14 days. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. If you’re travelling to New Zealand quarantine free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. You can find information on this website. About the Alert Level system Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu Last updated: 29 March 2021 Updates and resources Contact and feedback