New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are also extra restrictions on social gatherings, funerals and tangihanga in Auckland. You might be interested in: There is no media conference scheduled for Monday 7 September. Current Alert Levels Data and statistics about the response to COVID-19 in New Zealand There is no media conference today. The Ministry of Health published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. We are sad to report the second COVID-19 related death in as many days. We are sad to report the death of a man at Middlemore Hospital, linked to COVID-19. Wash your hands with soap. Cough or sneeze into your elbow. Clean surfaces. Help our health services reach people quickly to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. If you have cold or flu symptoms, we recommend you stay home and call your doctor or Healthline. Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. More information
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Our website privacy statement, terms of use, contact details if you would like advice or have feedback, and how to access archives of our website. How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Access covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you don't have any data on your device, you can use our website. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. Who to contact if you want advice, have questions or want to give us feedback on the website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. Last modified: 23 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Call 111 immediately in an emergency. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: Many government agencies have language support available, if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) You can get in touch with the COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group by emailing or sending a letter to us. If you’re sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Email: covid19response@dpmc.govt.nz Postal address: COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand  Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There’s no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. Last modified: 23 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 All-of-Government Response Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you don't have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — www.covid19.govt.nz. We’ve removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you'll have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. More about how you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) Last modified: 10 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Your Alert Level will depend on where you are in New Zealand. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. At Alert Level 2 the disease is contained, but there is a risk of community transmission. Alert Level 3 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. New Zealand’s 4-level Alert System lists the measures to be taken against COVID-19 at each level. The Government has a range of actions including the Alert System, border restrictions and testing. If you’re concerned that someone is not following the rules, including not complying with managed isolation requirements, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 1, everyone can return to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Information on international travel Staying at home if you’re sick is still the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. Information about staying home if you’re sick It’s still important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy We recommend you keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. How to keep track of where you’ve been We recommend businesses help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information Last modified: 1 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. The Auckland region is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions on social gatherings, funerals and tangihanga. This will remain in place until at least 11:59pm on Wednesday 16 September. Restrictions on gatherings in Auckland You legally must now wear a face covering when on public transport. This rule applies throughout New Zealand. Face coverings If you’re leaving Auckland, please travel safely. While social gatherings of up to 100 are allowed outside of Auckland, you’re encouraged to behave as if you’re carrying your extra restrictions with you. Consider avoiding gatherings of more than 10 people, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you have any cold or flu symptoms at all, we recommend not travelling — stay at home and get tested. Remember to be considerate and ensure you practise good hygiene, maintain physical distancing, wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance and as always, wash your hands and cough and sneeze into your elbow. Get tested for COVID-19 if you have cold or flu symptoms. Tests are free At Alert Level 2 there may be some situations where you need to self-isolate or go into a quarantine facility. Who needs to self-isolate or quarantine, and how testing works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy You should keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses are legally required to display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. They legally must also have an alternative contact tracing system. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster, and a contact tracing register At Alert Level 2, you can leave home, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep at least: Physical distancing detailed information At Alert Level 2 the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You: Face covering advice and requirements You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You should not travel if you have symptoms of COVID-19, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Local travel restrictions You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 2. Regional travel There are controls at the border for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Border restriction information No more than 100 people at social gatherings, including weddings, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. There are specific restrictions depending on the type of gathering: Public venues can open at Alert Level 2. This includes: Venues need to comply with public health restrictions. Gatherings, events and public venues There are extra restrictions on social gatherings, funerals and tangihanga in the Auckland region. Auckland restrictions on gatherings, funerals and tangihanga You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, if you can do them safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 Gatherings, events and public venues Businesses can open, but they legally must following public health rules. These include physical distancing and record keeping. How to do business at Alert Level 2 If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 Early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are open to all ages. There are some restrictions if a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 is found related to an educational facility. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 2 Last modified: 4 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Auckland region is at Alert Level 2. There are extra restrictions on social gatherings, funerals and tangihanga in the Auckland region. Alert Level 2  Get tested for COVID-19 if you have cold or flu symptoms. Tests are free At Alert Level 3 you legally must stay home in self-isolation until you receive your results. How testing and quarantine works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy We recommend you keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster At Alert Level 3, we recommend you stay in your household bubbles whenever you’re not at work or school. You legally must stay within your household bubble. You can expand this to: It’s important to protect your bubble. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and healthy. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they legally must immediately self-isolate from everyone else within the bubble. Do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, extended family and whānau, to enter your home. Keep your distance when outside your home. Maintain physical distancing of 2 metres outside your home, when buying the groceries or exercising. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people, like in shops. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. Face covering advice and requirements You can travel within your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Public transport can continue to operate with strict health and safety requirements. Local travel at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3 travel between regions is heavily restricted. Regional travel There are controls at the border for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Border restriction information Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for: Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Public venues legally must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area. How to exercise and do recreational activities safely at Alert Level 3  At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff working from home if they can. How to do business at Alert Level 3 If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 Where possible we encourage students to learn from home. Schools can safely open but will have limited capacity. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 3 Last modified: 2 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. All of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. The Auckland region is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions on social gatherings, funerals and tangihanga. This will remain in place until at least 11:59pm on Wednesday 16 September. Restrictions on gatherings in Auckland You legally must now wear a face covering when on public transport. This rule applies throughout New Zealand. Face coverings The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 28 August 2020 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 28 August 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] At all levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of CDEM. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: Likely the disease is not contained. High risk the disease is not contained. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Detailed information about Alert Level 2 The disease is contained in New Zealand. Detailed information about Alert Level 1 Last modified: 4 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Managed isolation and quarantine is an important part in ensuring we keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements Last modified: 13 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Your Alert Level will depend on where you are in New Zealand. The Auckland region is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions on social gatherings, funerals and tangihanga. Auckland restrictions on gatherings, funerals and tangihanga This will remain in place until at least 11:59pm on Wednesday 16 September. The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2 This will remain in place until at least 11:59pm on Wednesday 16 September. Wash your hands with soap. Cough or sneeze into your elbow. Clean surfaces. Help our health services reach people quickly to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. If you have cold or flu symptoms, we recommend you stay home and call your doctor or Healthline.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Alert System was introduced by the government in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The system helps us to stop the spread of COVID-19, with different measures at each Alert Level.  Alert System overview Border entry measures are in place to minimise the risk of importing COVID-19 cases. The border is closed, except for New Zealand citizens and residents, and a small number of limited exceptions — such as critical workers. Exemptions are managed by Immigration New Zealand (external link) . Border closures and exceptions (external link) Anyone returning to New Zealand from overseas legally must complete 14 days in managed-isolation before returning to the community. Arriving back in New Zealand Keeping COVID-19 out means we need to identify any cases if they emerge. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Testing is prioritised for people who are most likely to have COVID-19. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. Other people with COVID-19 symptoms may also be tested. This is to help ensure that we don’t have community transmission in New Zealand. Our approach to testing Several visa categories were automatically extended to 25 September 2020 due to the impact of COVID-19 and challenge for people returning home. Work, student, visitor, limited or interim visas that expired between 2 April and 9 July 2020 were automatically extended if the person was in New Zealand on 2 April. Confirmation of these extensions and what it means have been emailed to visa holders. Immigration changes due to COVID-19 (external link) All driver licences, WoFs, CoFs and some vehicle certifications that expired on or after 1 January 2020 are valid for up to 6 months from 10 April 2020. This recognises that during Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3, through no fault of their own, many New Zealanders were unable to keep these documents up to date. This extension allows vehicle users extra time to allow them to get up to date. All vehicle inspection sites are now open and to ensure your vehicle remains safe to use, we recommend renewing your WoF or CoF as soon as possible. NCEA exams were delayed to provide students more time to prepare for end of year assessments. External NCEA examinations and New Zealand Scholarship examinations have moved from 6 November to 16 November, allowing another week for teaching, learning and internal assessment in Term 4. The submission date for subjects which require students to submit a portfolio, such as Design and Visual Communication, has moved from from 28 October to 12 November 2020, giving students more time to prepare. The requirement for NZQA verification of Level 1 and 2 Visual Arts portfolios has been waived, allowing students more time to complete their portfolios and teachers more time for marking. Further information from the Ministry of Education (external link) If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, there are many industries that need people to keep New Zealand moving. Keep NZ working Last modified: 2 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Requirements and advice if you’re in the Auckland region.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you’re leaving Auckland, please travel safely. While social gatherings of up to 100 are allowed outside of Auckland, you’re encouraged to behave as if you’re carrying your extra restrictions with you. Consider avoiding gatherings of more than 10 people, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you have any cold or flu symptoms at all, we recommend not travelling — stay at home and get tested. Remember to be considerate and ensure you practise good hygiene, maintain physical distancing, wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance and as always, wash your hands and cough and sneeze into your elbow. Auckland is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions social gatherings, funerals and tangihanga. The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. Level 2.5 is Level 2 with some extra restrictions. It is not a new formal Alert Level. The idea is a way of highlighting that there are extra restrictions at Level 2 in Auckland. Guidance on life at Alert Level 2 The Auckland region is everything within the Auckland Council boundary — from Wellsford in the north to Pukekohe in the south. Auckland boundary map [JPG, 914 KB] At Alert Level 2 in Auckland, social gatherings can have a maximum of 10 people. Social gatherings do not include customers in a store or visits to public and event venues. Gatherings and events at Alert Level 2 Funerals and tangihanga may have up to 50 people, and have to meet other conditions set by the Ministry of Health. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 Last modified: 4 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. How to get your QR code poster, how to operate safely, help finding new employees, and business resources and financial help. Help to find a job, what industries need people, and career advice. Opportunities are available to study, train or begin an apprenticeship. Help is available if you're experiencing financial distress including help for businesses and foreign nationals in NZ. Resources to help your business operate safely — including posters and signs.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. How to get your QR code poster, how to operate safely, help finding new employees, and business resources and financial help. Help your customers keep track of where they’ve been. Help your customers keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. How to operate safely and what you need to do at Alert Level 3. How to operate safely and what you need to do at Alert Level 2. Information for businesses on how to operate safely at Alert Level 1. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. Help is available to connect employers with people looking for work. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Get your QR code poster All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location. This came into effect at 11:59am Wednesday 19 August 2020. When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display a poster encouraging people to download the NZ COVID Tracer app: You might find it useful to display these posters in your place of business. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Your business legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Alternative contact tracing systems You can also view this content as web pages. How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Last modified: 7 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Last modified: 23 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. All people on-site should sign in using either the QR code or an alternative contact tracing system. This includes employees and customers. Make sure it’s done every day, including weekends and after hours. People who sign in with the NZ COVID Tracer app don’t need to use an alternative system. All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location. This came into effect at 11:59am Wednesday 19 August 2020. Get your QR code poster Your business legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. The Ministry of Health or a District Health Board may contact you if a person is diagnosed with COVID-19 and your business is a potential contact. There are different systems and processes you can use to keep a record. You can use: We recommend that records include the person’s name, phone number, and the date and time they enter. Whatever alternate system you use, it’s important that everyone’s personal details are collected, kept and used in a way that protects their privacy. Previous visitors’ records should not visible to other visitors. Unsecured personal information exposes people to unwelcome contact, fraud, or even identity theft. It’s also a breach of the Privacy Act. These records should be kept for at least 30 days. You should only collect information if it’s necessary for contact tracing. The purpose of the collection is to help the Ministry of Health to contact a person in the event of a suspected or confirmed case of COVID-19. It’s unnecessary to collect other personal information like identity verification documents or number plates. You should only ask for name, phone number and the date and time of visit. When collecting this information, tell people that it’s being collected to support contact tracing. It’s your responsibility to store any private information securely, and it can only be used for COVID-19 contact tracing. For example, you should not automatically add people’s emails to your contact database without their consent. We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your register system. For example: This information is being collected to assist in the management of COVID-19. It will be given to the Ministry of Health and/or the District Health Board on request if it is required for contact tracing purposes. We will not use it for any other purpose, and will destroy it after 30 days. It will be kept here at [name of the establishment]. You have a right to access and correct any information we hold about you. Information about how the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace contacts of identified cases: Contact tracing for COVID-19 Last modified: 4 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 1, businesses are able to operate with no restrictions in place, but it is important to maintain hygiene practices. If workers are sick or have symptoms of COVID-19, we recommend they stay home. More information about when to stay home To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster Last modified: 13 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Businesses and workplaces legally must operate safely. This means: Business premises can open for staff and customers provided they meet public health requirements. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises — for example their home. Close contact services can operate if they meet public health measures including robust record keeping, good hygiene practices and minimise contact to the extent possible. If a workplace cannot meet these measures it cannot open its physical premises. All businesses are encouraged to use alternative ways of working if possible. If workers have symptoms of COVID-19, we recommend they stay home. At Alert Level 2 businesses can have customers on their premises. Retail businesses, including malls, markets and takeaway shops legally must: There is no maximum number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. Public facilities include: All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. Event facilities include: All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars legally must: While we recommend each table having a single server, each server can cover multiple tables. If you operate in the Auckland region, you cannot have more than 10 customers or clients seated together at a table. People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhere to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place like: To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) Last modified: 31 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Under Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff work from home if they can. We recommend businesses self-assess their ability to meet these restrictions and operate safely, just as they would normally to meet their duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. Government agencies will not make these decisions for businesses. More information on operating a business at Alert Level 3 (external link) We recommend your business be contactless. Customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. We recommend delivery or pick-up should also be contactless. We recommend customers should not come onto your premises unless you’re a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, or pharmacy or permitted health service. We recommend your business should not operate if it requires close physical contact. There are exceptions for some essential services, or in an emergency or critical situation. For retailers, manufacturers and the service industries, if you did not use personal protective equipment (PPE) before COVID-19, you do not need it now. Businesses providing necessities, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, dairies and petrol stations can operate under Alert Level 3. Any business providing necessities should minimise, or eliminate if possible, physical interactions among staff and with and between customers ensure appropriate health, hygiene and safety measures are in place. For example, dairies and petrol stations can remain open at all Alert Levels, if they can operate safely. At Alert Level 3, prepared food and drink can be bought and sold, but we recommend not allowing customers consuming these onsite. Independent butchers, bakeries and greengrocers can operate if they deliver or offer pre-arranged collection of goods bought online or by phone. Consumers cannot physically browse for goods. Retail stores and hospitality businesses such as bars and cafes may operate, but we recommend customers not enter the premises. Delivery, or drive-through or contactless pick up by customers is allowed. Customers can pay in cash if there is no alternative, but try to handle the cash using self-checkout kiosks or cleaning hands well after handling. We recommend customers not consume food or drink on your premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: During Alert Level 3, most work can be carried out in the building and construction sector. All goods can be delivered, including food. We recommend the delivery be contactless. Alcohol can be delivered if the business has an off-licence. You can provide certain services in home, provided physical distancing and other public health guidance is observed. However, we recommend not having house cleaning. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) Last modified: 26 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are 3 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your business locations. You'll need: Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of business locations, you may find it easier to use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. This way may be easier if you have a large number of business locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) If you have previously used Business Connect to create your QR code posters or are in the process of doing this, you can still use it to reprint or add new locations for an existing business. Log in to Business Connect through RealMe (external link) All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location. This legal requirement came into effect at 11:59am Wednesday 19 August 2020. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. Each location legally must display their poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, will be legally required to display QR codes by 11: 59pm on Thursday 3 September. This includes buses, trains, aircraft, ferries and ride-share vehicles. Businesses without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. QR codes are not mandatory for public transport services that have ticketing processes that collect contact information for every passenger. Depending on the operator, this could airlines and inter-city buses. The following services are also not required to display QR codes: While displaying a QR code is not madantory in these situations, we still encourage you to display a QR code. You need to display your QR code poster at all Alert Levels. Display the poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You can also place some posters inside, especially where people walk past without creating an obstacle. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. We recommend you: Do not: If you need help generating your QR code posters or have questions about NZ COVID Tracer: How to download NZ COVID Tracer app To stop the spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has been exposed to COVID-19. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent further spread of the disease. How contact tracing works Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you need help hiring new employees, Work and Income can help. You can advertise jobs for free and easily access work-ready people who are wanting to work. Whether you’re a small, medium or large business, or looking to recruit locally or nationally, Work and Income can connect you with candidates who have skills to suit all kinds of jobs. List your job vacancies for free or talk to them about tailoring a recruitment plan to meet the needs of your business. Advertise your job vacancies for free (external link) Information about Work and Income’s recruitment services (external link) Many initiatives are underway to connect employers in a range of in-demand industries with people looking for work. More information on in-demand industries The Mana in Mahi programme provides young people with on-the-job training so they get paid while working towards an industry qualification. Businesses can receive funding and support to recruit, train and retain employees. To take part in the Mana in Mahi programme, your business will need to: To apply, contact Work and Income on 0800 778 008 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) He Poutama Rangatahi supports rangatahi aged 15 to 24 to connect with employers and get into long-term employment. To be eligible, your business will need to do the following: Find out more about He Poutama Rangatahi on the Provincial Growth Fund website (external link) The Cadetships programme supports employers to develop, mentor, train and grow full-time permanent Māori staff to take on more senior roles within an organisation. Your business could receive up to $10,000 to help develop a cadet for at least 6 months in a permanent role. To apply, your business will need to meet 1 of these requirements: Find out more about the Cadetships programme on the Te Puni Kokiri website (external link)  Last modified: 16 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Help is available if you're experiencing financial distress including help for businesses and foreign nationals in NZ. Find out what financial support you could access. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. Ethnic community groups can apply for funding to support their communities. How to get financial support if you're a sports or recreational club.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Find out what financial support you could access.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Funding is available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay socially connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: Apply for funding by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link) Once you apply, an internal panel looks at your application and the Office of Ethnic Communities makes the final decision. Funding for more than 1 year is available if your group: Groups with legal status, such as trusts and incorporated societies, can apply for over $10,000. Groups without legal status can apply for up to $10,000. Advice is available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) Last modified: 15 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme provides a payment to businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19 public health guidance. Businesses do not need to: COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) A 2 week COVID-19 Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment was available for employers, including self-employed people, who were financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19 and changes to COVID-19 Alert Levels. It supported employers to continue to pay employees. You can no longer apply for the Resurgence Wage Subsidy. The Wage Subsidy Extension payment was available to support workers, including sole traders, who were still significantly impacted by COVID-19 after the Wage Subsidy ended. You can no longer apply for the Wage Subsidy Extension. The Wage Subsidy Scheme helped employers recover from the effects of COVID-19. It helped employers to keep their staff employed and ensured an income for affected employees for up to 12 weeks. You can no longer apply for the Wage Subsidy Scheme. Small and medium-sized businesses may be eligible for the Business Finance Guarantee scheme. The scheme helps businesses access credit to support operating cashflow disrupted by COVID-19. Participating banks can provide to eligible businesses: Recent changes to the scheme mean: The scheme supports banks to take on lending by the Government taking on the default risk of up to 80% of the loan. No personal guarantee is required. Lending decisions are made by banks. Borrowers must still pay the loan back — with interest — as they would normally. Information about the Business Finance Guarantee scheme from the Treasury (external link) Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) Inland Revenue will provide interest-free loans for a year to small businesses as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme will provide assistance of up to $100,000 to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within a year. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Company directors facing significant liquidity problems can also seek a safe harbour from sections 135 and 136 of the Companies Act 1993. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) Support will be available to employers of first and second year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost Initiative (external link) Last modified: 7 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme provides a payment to businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19 public health guidance. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) A 2 week COVID-19 Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment was available nationally for employers, including self-employed people, who were financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19 and changes to COVID-19 Alert Levels. Your employer can no longer apply for the Resurgence Wage Subsidy. The Wage Subsidy Extension payment was available to support workers, including sole traders, who were still significantly impacted by COVID-19 after the Wage Subsidy ended. Your employer can no longer apply for the Wage Subsidy Extension. The Wage Subsidy Scheme helped employees working for businesses suffering from the effects of COVID-19. It helped keep people employed and ensured an income for affected employees for up to 12 weeks. Your employer can no longer apply for the Wage Subsidy Scheme. As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) The COVID-19 Income Relief Payment is another option for people who have recently lost their jobs. You may be eligible if you lost your job (including self-employment) from 1 March 2020 to 30 October 2020, due to the impacts of COVID-19. You can get up to 12 weeks of payments to help with living costs and give you time to look for other work. It offers: More information and how to apply (external link) If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There is currently a freeze on rent increases. This means that landlords can’t increase rent for their rental properties until after 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants at the Tenancy Services website (external link) New Zealand’s retail banks are able to defer repayments for some mortgages until 31 March 2021. This applies to: You have to be financially affected by COVID-19. These loans will not be viewed as being defualted. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you may be able to defer principal and interest payments on your loan. Banks and customers have flexibility over the term of any deferral. However, the Reserve Bank’s  concessionary loan guidance will expire on 31 March 2021. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. Interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess each customer that asks for a deferral. The Reserve Bank’s guidance is that lenders should only approve a deferral if: Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) Last modified: 7 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Temporary assistance is available to eligible people to help meet basic needs, like food and accommodation. Assistance will be paid directly to third parties, like landlords or power companies, and no cash payments will be made.  All classes of temporary visa holders are eligible. These include: Find out if you are eligible and apply at the Red Cross website (external link) Holders of a Recognised Seasonal Employer (RSE) visa are also eligible. To be eligible your RSE employer legally must: If you’re on an RSE visa, you should talk to your employer about applying for this assistance. Your employer should call the Red Cross on 0800 733 276 (choose option 1). Red Cross Visitor Care Manaaki Manuhiri (external link) Last modified: 13 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. To help clubs and recreational organisations get back up and running, Sport NZ has launched a Community Resilience Fund for Regional Sports Trusts to access. Phase 2 of the fund is open for applications from 3 August to 4 September 2020. The fund is available to help regional and local sports organisations remain financially viable following disruption caused by COVID-19. Eligible applicants can apply for help to pay for: The amount awarded will be decided on a case-by-case basis, and no one will be awarded more than $25,000. Apply via your local Regional Sports Trust. Each trust has a different application process for contestable funds. More information about the Sports NZ Community Resilience Fund (external link) Last modified: 2 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Help to find a job, what industries need people, and career advice. Advice on how to search for jobs and how to advertise jobs if you’re an employer. Information on the jobs available in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Practical advice to help you look for a new job or retrain.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Careers NZ has practical, useful advice if your job has been impacted by COVID-19. Careers NZ can help with: Careers NZ has tools and resources to help kick-start your career or to help you consider study or retraining options if you have been impacted by COVID-19. Know Your CV — Careers NZ (external link) You can find detailed information about jobs you may be interested in, including what the job involves, salary expectations, job opportunities and length of training required. Search for jobs you may be interested in (external link) Careers New Zealand also has a list of job vacancy and recruitment websites that have roles across a range of industries, so you can find your next challenge. List of job vacancy and recruitment website (external link) Call 0800 601 301 to talk to someone from 8:30am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. They can help you with: You can also talk to someone online. Chat online about your career options (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 8 June 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Many people's circumstances have changed due to COVID-19. If you have lost your job, or want a change in career, now is a good time to look for a new challenge. Many industries need people to keep New Zealand moving. If you are looking for work, you can create a job finder profile on the Keep New Zealand Working website. This site can connect you to businesses that need work-ready people to help support New Zealand through COVID-19. Create a job finder profile (external link) You can search from a range of available jobs across the country from the Keep New Zealand Working website. Search job vacancies (external link) If you need help hiring additional staff, you can advertise jobs for free to access work-ready people easily. Advertise jobs for free (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. To find options for choosing, improving or changing your work journey call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) There are many jobs available at the moment in the food and fibre, horticulture, dairy and forestry industries. Information about in-demand industries Last modified: 23 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are many roles involved in producing New Zealand’s food and fibre, which are essential to helping New Zealand through the recovery. These include: There are many opportunities to join the sector. In the next 5 years we need 50,000 people with a diverse range of interests, experiences and backgrounds. Opportunities range from seasonal jobs through to long-term careers. GrowingNZ can help with career advice in the sector. It also lists available roles across New Zealand. GrowingNZ career advice (external link) New Zealand is a large provider of fruit and vegetables to the world. This is what the horticulture sector supplies. New Zealand horticulture leads the way in healthy, sustainable food production — developing technology, growing and harvesting food, designing new products and selling them to the world. The GoHort website can help you work out if a career in horticulture is right for you. It has information about careers in the science, business and technology sectors as well as working on an orchard. The GoHort JobBoard showcases the career opportunities currently available in the horticultural sector. You can list a job if you are an employer and find a job if you are looking for a new role. GoHort JobBoard (external link) Right now the dairy sector needs motivated and passionate people to work on dairy farms. There are many roles and career pathways with self-employed options available. Many of your existing skills may be transferable to a dairy farming role. Dairy sector opportunities include working: You can find out which dairy sector careers, including on-farm roles, would best suit your skills and experience on the Go Dairy website. Go Dairy (external link) Free training is available for people who have lost their jobs due to COVID-19. The 3 week course includes 1 week online and 2 practical weeks. Free Farm Ready Training (external link) Forestry roles involve much more than growing and harvesting plantation forests. Careers include: There are opportunities to suit your needs, from long-term positions to seasonal work. Forestry Careers NZ has a range of information on the roles available in the industry, career expectations, and skills and qualifications needed. Forestry Careers NZ (external link) Last modified: 30 June 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Fees-free vocational education and training is available through the Targeted Training and Apprenticeships Fund. There is no need to apply as fees are paid directly to providers by the Tertiary Education Commission. Funding is available for vocational programmes in targeted industries and for apprenticeships in all industries. Starting from 1 July, the vocational programmes initially funded are in the following areas: Find the list of supported training on the Tertiary Education Commission website (external link) Fees will be covered from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2022. If you started a course earlier in the year, you may be eligible for a partial refund if your course continues past 1 July 2020. Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Contact Connected to get help to choose the education or training you need if you're starting your work journey or looking to retrain. Call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) The Mana in Mahi programme can kick start your career, giving you on-the-job training so you get paid while working towards an industry qualification. You can also receive support getting the things you need to get started like clothes and tools. To apply, you can contact Work and Income on 0800 779 009 or email Mana_in_Mahi@msd.govt.nz . Find out more about the Mana and Mahi programme on the Work and Income website (external link) The Hardship Fund is available for students facing financial difficulty, including as a result of COVID-19. You can receive grants to cover certain costs, and loans if you are waiting on money from things like scholarship payments, research grants, international bank transfers, etc. The Hardship Fund can help with a range of issues, including: To apply, contact your tertiary education provider. Find out more about the Hardship Fund on the Tertiary Education Commission’s website (external link) Last modified: 7 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Bula vinaka, fakaalofa lahi atu, fakatalofa atu, kia orana, ko na mauri, malo e lelei, mālō nī, noa’ia, talofa lava, tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. The latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. Advice about gatherings, events, public facilities and other types of gatherings. How to stay safe when going out to bars and night clubs. Advice for religious communities including providing last rites, funerals, and advice for Muslim communities. Advice for renters and homeowners, and guidance about waste collection and animal welfare. How to shop safely, access goods and services, get essential supplies, and how to eat out and about safely. Advice on how education looks at each Alert Level and online safety.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Bars and night clubs can open at Alert Level 2, with 100 people per defined space. There are extra restrictions on numbers in Auckland region. 1 metre physical distancing is required, except for friends and whānau. Tables will be 1 metre away from other groups. Bars and night clubs have been shown to be places where COVID-19 can spread easily, so it’s important to follow the requirements, even when you’ve had a few drinks. You should not go to a bar or night club if you: If you go to a bar or night club, follow the 3 S’s: Stay seated at your table unless using the bathroom, paying or departing. This means no dancefloors or standing around tables. Your table will be set up at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Make sure you keep 1 metre physical distance throughout the night from other groups and people you don’t know. Each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Make all your orders through your server and do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. You can play pool and use gaming machines provided they are 1 metre apart from eachother. You can not eat or drink while playing pool. When playing, make sure you keep 1 metre apart from other groups. We recommend you sign in to a bar or night club with either: In Auckland region, bars and night clubs can have up to 100 people within any defined space. People will be seated in separate groups of no more than 10 people, and kept 1 metre apart. This means you may have to wait to get into a venue and be seated. How bar and night club owners can do business safely at Alert Level 2 A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: Last modified: 7 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you’re leaving Auckland, please travel safely. While social gatherings of up to 100 are allowed outside of Auckland, you’re encouraged to behave as if you’re carrying your extra restrictions with you. Consider avoiding gatherings of more than 10 people, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you have any cold or flu symptoms at all, we recommend not travelling — stay at home and get tested. Remember to be considerate and ensure you practise good hygiene, maintain physical distancing, wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance and as always, wash your hands and cough and sneeze into your elbow. Gatherings and events can go ahead at Alert Level 2, with specific requirements and extra restrictions in Auckland region. You should n o t go to any gatherings or attend public events if you : Social gatherings can go ahead at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland region. Social gatherings include: Funeral and tangihanga requirements Religious community advice Play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If you can not maintain physical distance from people you do not know, you should consider wearing a face covering. The person organising the gathering legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. At a social gathering you do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. If you have hired a venue just for a gathering then the rules on gatherings apply. If you’re a business or service, then the rules for businesses and hospitality apply. For example, eating dinner with friends at a restaurant. A social gathering in the Auckland region must not exceed 10 people in a defined space at any 1 time. You can have up to 10 guests over to your home. This includes people who usually live in your house. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the 10 person limit. Defined space meaning Social gatherings outside Auckland region can be held with up to 100 people in a defined space. You can have guests over to your home, but the 100 person limit applies. This includes people who usually live in your house. Defined space meaning Public facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. There are no extra restrictions for public facilities in Auckland region. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. If you go to a public facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you don't know, where possible — if you can not, consider wearing a face covering. Public facilities include: We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. How to do business safely at Alert Level 2 Event facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. There are no extra restrictions for event facilities in Auckland region. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. If you go to an event facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you don’t know, where possible — if you can't, consider wearing a face covering. Event facilities include: We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. If you believe you have observed behaviour that's not appropriate, and you're certain the individuals concerned are not following Alert Level requirements, you can report it. Report a breach online Last modified: 7 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Advice for renters and homeowners, and guidance about waste collection and animal welfare. Information about collection of household waste. Information about animal welfare and accessing veterinary services. Information such as rent increase freezes, moving house and maintenance guidance. Information such as mortgage payment deferrals, moving house, home maintenance, and buying or selling a property. Information to help you access or pay for accommodation
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you’re concerned about an animal’s welfare call the Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) on 0800 008 333 . If your animals need treatment, contact your own veterinary clinic. If you don't have a regular veterinarian, or yours isn't open, you can find nearby clinics on Find-a-Vet. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) If you're self-isolating, you must contact your veterinarian before visiting them or they visit you including for production animals. This applies even if your animal is being presented by someone else. There remains no evidence that domestic animals, pets or livestock can spread COVID-19 and routine testing of animals for COVID-19 isn't justified. However, it’s good practice to wash your hands before and after interacting with animals. We recommend people sick with COVID-19 avoid contact with pets and other animals, as they would with people. This is based on international advice. Where there's COVID-19 in a household, we recommend animals are not moved off the property. Travel is allowed for essential personal movement in your area, including for accessing local services and businesses. When travelling to deliver an animal, such as a puppy, you'll need to ensure that safe practices are implemented. For example, ensuring a safe distance between all people involved in transporting and receiving the animal, and practicing good hygiene practices, such as hand washing. You cannot travel to another region to personally deliver an animal as part of a sale or adoption. However, transporting the animal as freight with a commercial pet transport company is available. This will likely be via land transport. Check with commercial providers. Travel to care for your animals, including horses, is allowed. This includes providing your animals with food, water, exercise and any other aspect that you need to provide to meet your responsibilities under the Animal Welfare Act and relevant codes of welfare. If your animals are in another region that's not in your local area, try to get someone else you trust to provide care if possible. If your horses are in other people’s care, like at a stable or graziers, in your local area then you can visit them, with certain guidelines. You can visit your horses to provide them with care and exercise. You must maintain physical distance from others. If your horses are in other people’s care, and are not in your region, then you should avoid visiting them. Whenever you visit or exercise your horses, make sure you practise good hygiene measures and physical distancing. A roster system for horse owners to visit the facility may be 1 measure that could be implemented to meet this requirement and to ensure contact tracing is easily achievable. The facility must record everyone that is working there, and every visitor and contractor who enters. Limit visits to what is necessary. Under Alert Level 3, farming and other primary sector businesses and support services can operate, as long as they can do so safely. Advice for farmers and agriculture businesses at Alert Level 3 (external link) Animal and pet care service businesses can operate at Alert Level 3 if they can meet safe practice requirements and can operate without physical contact with customers. Only workers are allowed on business premises. Advice for businesses operating at Alert Level 3 — WorkSafe (external link) Last modified: 15 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand’s retail banks are able to defer repayments for some mortgages until 31 March 2021. This applies to: You have to be financially affected by COVID-19. These loans will not be viewed as being defualted. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you may be able to defer principal and interest payments on your loan. Banks and customers have flexibility over the term of any deferral. However, the Reserve Bank’s  concessionary loan guidance will expire on 31 March 2021. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. Interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess each customer that asks for a deferral. The Reserve Bank’s guidance is that lenders should only approve a deferral if: Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend that settlement is delayed until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or less. You can look for properties to buy, but we recommend doning this without face to face contact with real estate agents, owners or existing tenants. People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise people about this advice: More information for tenants and landlords is available on the Tenancy Services website (external link) Last modified: 2 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you need help to access or pay for accommodation during COVID-19, there are several ways to get support. It depends on your situation. See the information on this page for support options or download the flowchart. Flowchart: access to accommodation [PDF, 509 KB] If you’re in hardship and need support or accommodation, contact the NZ Red Cross: If you’re leaving a Managed Isolation Facility and have nowhere to stay, talk to the manager of your Managed Isolation Facility. If you’re a public housing tenant of Kainga Ora or a Community Housing provider, contact your tenancy manager. You can also contact Work and Income: If you’re under 19 call your Youth Service provider if you have one. If you do not have a Youth Service provider call Work and Income on 0800 559 006 . Say “youth client” when you call. If you’re in urgent need of housing within the next 7 days and have nowhere else to stay, call Work and Income on 0800 559 006 : Work and Income website (external link) If you’re at risk from family violence and are in immediate danger call 111 . Press 55 to go through to the Police. If you’re not in immediate danger but need help with family violence you can call: Last modified: 31 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Currently, there’s a freeze on rent increases until 25 September 2020. This means that landlords cannot increase rent for their rental properties. This freeze began on Thursday 26 March. More details about rent increases on the Tenancy Services website (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise people about this advice: More information for tenants and landlords is available on the Tenancy Services website (external link) Last modified: 3 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Waste collection will occur at all Alert Levels. Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) You legally must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. Put your disposable face covering or mask in a closed lidded bin, or put into a bag and seal it before putting into a rubbish bin or taking it home. After disposing of your face covering or mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you prefer, use hand sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use disposable face coverings or masks. Do not flush wet wipes down the toilet, as they can cause a breakdown of our wastewater and sewerage system. Instead, put them into your household rubbish. Waste handling and kerbside collection workers will get the appropriate protection equipment from their employers to ensure their personal safety. Please do not approach workers engaged in waste handling or collection services. Information about personal protective equipment for non-health workers (external link) Check your local council or private collector website and social media platform regularly for updates on recycling arrangements and kerbside collection dates in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) Municipal landfills and most waste transfer stations will be open. Some waste transfer stations may allow limited access to the public. Check your local council website for more information before visiting. Check council websites for public recycling facility arrangements in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) While you can undertake gardening or other waste-generating activity at home at Alert Level 3, keep any waste on-site until the Alert Level 3 period has ended. Last modified: 15 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. View the 31 August video update in 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 16 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 12 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Following the resurgence of COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand and the impact it is having on our Pacific communities, it is essential we consider the information we are receiving. Together with our partners Bright Sunday 4pi, the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Police, SunPix, Tagata Pasifika and Pacific Media Network (PMN), the Ministry for Pacific Peoples (MPP) has put together a half hour special programme focusing on Sela Alo, the General Manager of PMN, and his journey of surviving COVID-19, as well as key messages from Pacific community members and leaders. Watch the half-hour programme (external link) We got your back Aotearoa is a social media campaign that is aimed at reaching our Pacific communities and features some of New Zealand's well-known Pacific people, including: They share messages of encouragement to help protect our people and once again beat and eliminate COVID-19. Watch the video messages (external link) Information and advice is available in 10 Pacific languages to support you, your children and young people learning from home. Learning from home (external link) In the battle against COVID-19, Prepare Pacific helps get information out to Pacific communities in Pacific languages. Prepare Pacific is an initiative of Counties Manukau Health, Auckland District Health Board, Waitematā District Health Board, Northland District Health Board and all our essential services who are working around the clock to help our people. Prepare Pacific (external link) If you need a Whānau Ora Family Support Package contact one of our partners. Pacific Business Trust is providing free practical business assistance for all Pacific organisations in New Zealand who have been impacted by COVID-19. Find out more about free business assistance (external link) Pasifika Futures are referring Pacific families who need to access a COVID-19 support package to their local Civil Defence or a supporting agency. Call your local provider to see if you are eligible for support (external link) Last modified: 29 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Advice on how education looks at each Alert Level and online safety. Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on managing shared custody, childcare and childcare providers. The internet helps us connect with people but there are also risks. Find out how to stay safe online.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 2, Early Learning Centres, schools and tertiary education facilities are open for all age groups. If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it legally must close temporarily, if advised by the public health unit, to allow for contact tracing. Children or young people legally must stay home if they: Distance learning will be available for any students not able to attend school. Children, young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at school. This is because the risk of infection within the school environment is low. Face coverings All Early Learning Centres and schools are physically open including for Years 11 to 13. Distance learning will be available for those who cannot attend school, for example where people are self-isolating. Early Learning Centres and schools are safe environments for children, young people and staff. Additional public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease and to support contact tracing. Tertiary education facilities are open. Tertiary education is a safe environment for students and staff to return to at Alert Level 2. Tertiary education facilities will implement public health requirements and physical distancing and will provide a safe environment where students can continue their learning. They will maintain distance learning capability for staff and students who need it. Workplace-based learning will follow the rules that apply to the relevant industry. Under Alert Level 3 it will be safe for Early Learning/Education Centres and schools to open for children up to and including Year 10, with appropriate public health measures in place. All young people in Years 11–13 will continue to learn at home. Where possible, we recommend that students remain at home and continue distance learning. Where parents or caregivers need to, they can send their children to school. Schools will be a safe place for children to go to learn if their parents need to return to work, or the children cannot learn at a distance. Home-based early learning services can resume up to the maximum number of licensed children of 4, including the educators’ own children, provided they meet public health requirements. Play centres and playgroups will be closed. Personal protective equipment (PPE) like gloves and masks are not necessary for a school environment. We recommend that children, young people and staff who are at greater risk stay at home. We also recommend any child, young person or staff member who is sick remain at home. Some Schools and Early Learning Services may need extra time to get ready to open after we go to Alert Level 3. Schools will look different under Alert Level 3. There will be far fewer students on the grounds, and they will stay within their small groups. The small groups will help to maintain physical distancing. Some teachers will be teaching students at school, while others will support distance learning. For those small number of children attending school, the learning experience will be different to “normal” school. Home Learning TV | Papa Kāinga TV and Mauri Reo, Mauri Ora will support the learning of tamariki and rangatahi while Auckland is in Alert Level 3 and the rest of Aotearoa is in Alert Level 2. Home Learning TV | Papa Kāinga TV will take over TVNZ DUKE's daytime schedule between 9am and 1pm on week days, with programmes and lessons for children aged 2 to 11 years. DUKE is available on: Content will be available for catch up viewing on TVNZ OnDemand. Check the schedule and access lesson plans (external link) Mauri Reo Mauri Ora will be airing while Auckland is at Alert Level 3. You can watch from 9am to 3pm on week days on Te Reo Māori Channel: Content will be available for catch up viewing Māori Television OnDemand Schedules and previous sessions (external link) Tertiary education will be provided online. Certain small groups can work together at tertiary institutions. Student accommodation will remain open for students who require it. For details please contact your education provider or go to the Ministry of Education website. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers / whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz Last modified: 15 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: This is a good time for parents and caregivers to learn about tools like filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. You may be watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz . It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse, and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Make a non-emergency report to the police (external link) Last modified: 15 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 2, parenting arrangements can be as normal. Household bubbles don't need to be maintained, and you can connect with friends and family in a safe way. It's safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. Appropriate measures will be in place. Education at Alert Level 2 Children can travel freely for the purpose of parenting arrangements. There's no restriction on distance for domestic travel. Children still should not move between households if they show symptoms of COVID-19, are awaiting a test or are required to self-isolate. Make sure you travel in a safe way and follow public health measures. Public transport is available to everyone at Alert Level 2. Keep in mind that there’s less capacity on public transport because of physical distancing so if you can, consider travelling at off-peak times or walking or cycling. You should not travel on public transport if you’re unwell. Information on how to stay safe while using public transport (external link) Lawyers and other legal services are available during Alert Level 2 — physical consultations will need to follow public health measures. You can find a list of legal aid lawyers on the Ministry of Justice website or you may be eligible for assistance from a Community Law Centre. If you have a dispute on shared parenting the Family Court may be able to assist. Information about Family Court services under Alert Level 2 (external link) If you were doing Family Dispute Resolution check with your provider. These services will be available under Alert Level 2 but the way they are delivered may change, including doing some of the programme by phone or online. Call 0800 COURTS (0800 268 787) if you need other information about Family Court. If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz Last modified: 7 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you’re leaving Auckland, please travel safely. While social gatherings of up to 100 are allowed outside of Auckland, you’re encouraged to behave as if you’re carrying your extra restrictions with you. Consider avoiding gatherings of more than 10 people, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you have any cold or flu symptoms at all, we recommend not travelling — stay at home and get tested. Remember to be considerate and ensure you practise good hygiene, maintain physical distancing, wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance and as always, wash your hands and cough and sneeze into your elbow. At different Alert Levels, gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and it will also impact a number of other religious practices. The Auckland region is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions on gatherings, funerals and tangihanga. Gatherings are limited to 10 people. Funerals and tangihanga are limited to 10 people, unless registered, and have to meet other conditions set by the Ministry of Health. Gatherings and events Funerals and tangihanga Religious buildings can open at Alert Level 2. Up to 100 people can gather in each defined space for religious ceremonies, events and services. A defined space is an area that is partitioned off from other areas by permanent or temporary walls. Faith-based institutions and clubs can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each area. You will need to prevent mingling between groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. Read more about defined spaces at Alert Level 2 Gatherings legally must: We recommend that religious and faith-based gatherings follow social gathering rules, unless they’re operating under a club licence to sell alcohol. Then we recommend following hospitality rules. We recommend not participating in any gatherings if you have COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. We recommend following the general guidance for gatherings, including measures such as frequent cleaning, good hygiene, wearing face coverings and physical distancing. More information about gatherings and events at Alert Level 2. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they’re visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must adhere to the visiting policy of the health facility and follow the relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. More information on gatherings and events at Alert Level 3 Places of worship can use a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Halaal butchers may open, and you may enter the store. The shop legally must adhere to physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 2. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. A maximum of 100 people in will be able to attend the funeral. When Auckland moves to Alert Level 2, funerals and tangihanga will be limited to 50 people. Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. You cannot enter the premises. We recommend either collecting your meat or getting it delivered to your home. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend funerals. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Last modified: 27 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. How to shop safely, access goods and services, get essential supplies, and how to eat out and about safely. How to shop safely, including advice about getting groceries delivered, and what to do if you suspect price gouging. Advice for accessing goods and services, such as food shopping, healthcare, waste collection and vets. Support available if you need help getting groceries and other essential supplies. You can get takeaways at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. You can go to cafes, restaurants and bars at Alert Levels 1 and 2.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. These goods and services are available at all Alert Levels: Supermarkets and dairies are open at all Alert Levels. Supermarket websites tell you if they have online shopping available for everyone. If they are reserving online shopping for sick or at-risk people, we recommending you go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. Guidance for shopping safely Doctors, hospitals and pharmacies are open at all Alert Levels. Call your doctor before you visit. How to access healthcare If you need help, there is financial support available. This includes help with financial hardship from Work and Income and a mortgage repayment holiday. Find out what financial support is available Waste collection will occur at all Alert Levels. Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. More guidance about waste collection Funeral directors will continue working at all Alert Levels. The rules for funerals and tangihanga are different for each Alert Level. Information about funerals and tangihanga at different Alert Levels Veterinary services are available at all Alert Levels. If you’re self-isolating, you legally must phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) Last modified: 19 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants and bars can open and have customers on their premises. They legally must meet requirements to keep their customers safe. Delivery, drive-through or contactless pick-up may still be available. The 3 S's will be in place if you're dining in. Advice for going out to a bar or night club If you're in Auckland, no more than 10 customers can sit together at a table. You can order and collect food from the counter in cafes or fast food restaurants that don’t hold an on-licence or club licence. If you’re dining in, once you have ordered or collected your food, you must return to your seat. You must stay seated unless you’re using the bathroom or paying for your meal. On-licensed and club-licensed premises must continue to adhere to the 3 S's at all times, with a requirement to use table service. Food businesses can open at Alert Level 3, but only for takeaway, delivery or drive through. If you are picking up food in person, make sure you do this as safely as possible. You won't be allowed to enter the store, and need to maintain a 2 metre distance from others. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. Don't go out to get takeaways if you're sick with cold and flu symptoms. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick food up or get it delivered. Last modified: 15 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you need food, there are a number of ways to get help. You may be able to get help through Work and Income. You don’t need to be an existing Work and Income client. If your situation is urgent and you need food within the next 24 to 48 hours, you can contact a local food bank. The Ministry of Social Development is helping fund these. Find food banks and other food assistance services in Auckland (external link) Find food banks and other food assistance services across New Zealand (external link) Support may be available to get food delivered if you can’t leave your home. You can make: If this is not possible, you can also seek assistance through community groups, food banks, social service or health providers. Contact details for these groups on the Family Services Directory (external link) If you also need financial assistance, call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals in New Zealand Work and Income may be able to help you pay for groceries or goods, if you’re on a low income or a benefit. Find out how Work and Income can help (external link) Last modified: 2 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Supermarkets, dairies, petrol stations, and pharmacies and permitted health services are open at all Alert Levels, and you can go into their premises. All other shops can open if they can safely do so. This means following health restrictions for the relevant Alert Level. Guidance on which workplaces are open at different Alert Levels, and how they should operate (external link) Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19 or were told to self-isolate. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell If you can't get essential supplies  If you are heading out to pick up the essentials, plan your shopping in advance. Do not make multiple trips and make sure you know what restrictions shops have in place. At Alert Level 3, independent butchers, bakeries and greengrocers may operate if they deliver or offer pre-arranged collection of goods bought online or by phone. You cannot enter the store. The risk of COVID-19 transmission by food packaging is very unlikely. New Zealand Food Safety do not recommend disinfecting food products. Supermarket websites will tell you if they have slots available for general online shopping. If they reserve these for sick or at-risk people, you should go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. It is okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries. They should follow the advice that applies to the Alert Level you're in. Businesses are free to set their own prices, but businesses should be transparent about their prices and any increases during this time. You can report concerns about potential price gouging on goods and services to Price Watch. Report price increases you have noticed to Price Watch (external link) Last modified: 27 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. How to improve community resilience, connect communities, and how to prepare for an emergency as a community. Buying local is a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Help local tourism businesses by getting out and seeing New Zealand.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) Last modified: 23 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It’s natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it’s important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) When we get to know our neighbours we’re more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) Last modified: 15 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You’ll be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) Last modified: 23 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Information and guidance on COVID-19 symptoms, testing and contact tracing. When to get medical advice, flu vaccinations, cancer screenings, and getting medical care if your visa has expired. How you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus. This helps to protect yourself and others. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Information and guidance on COVID-19 symptoms, testing and contact tracing. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, how fast they appear and what to do if you have any symptoms. If you have cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor, iwi health provider or Healthline. They will let you know if you should have a COVID-19 test. The Ministry of Health and district health boards will continue to trace people who may have been in contact with anyone who has COVID-19.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Symptoms include: These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. If you have cold or flu symptoms, stay home and call: A health professional will advise whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting if you have any symptoms. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Information about testing for COVID-19 Like the flu, COVID-19 is spread by droplets from person to person. Good hygiene can prevent its spread. People can catch the virus through their eyes, nose or mouth. The scientific evidence proves that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. People may get infected by the virus if they touch those surfaces or objects, and then touch their mouth, nose or eyes. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, at any time. Last modified: 21 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you’re offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. It will help us make sure we do not have community transmission, and help keep your friends, family and whānau safe. Getting tested early helps protect those around you. If you have cold or flu symptoms, please call: COVID-19 symptoms A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. We particularly encourage you to get tested if you have symptoms and you’re: It is also a priority to test people who are symptomatic and have: A COVID-19 test is free of charge. But, you may need to pay for it if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. You will need to provide contact details so that your results can be sent to you. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it’s helpful if you have your NHI number when you get tested. The test is still free. But, you may need to pay for it if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. If you’re unsure if you should get a test, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Most GPs can test for COVID-19, but you need to call them before you turn up. District Health Boards and Public Health Units regularly update their lists of testing locations. Check back to see if there are new locations near you. If you need to be tested for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than 1 way to take a sample. But, the most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. The testing staff will tell you whether you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result or not. Follow their advice about what to do next, and always stay home if you are feeling unwell. If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. People testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they’re testing. Detailed assessment and testing information from the Ministry of Health (external link) You’ll get the result within 1 day or 2 if it’s positive. You’ll get a call from your doctor or testing staff, and from the public health unit at your District Health Board. If you miss the original phone calls, you may receive a text message asking you to contact the local public health team to discuss your results. If it’s negative, it might take up to 5 days. If you have not received your result after 5 days, please contact your GP or the place your test was done. If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and well-being, and more easily stop the virus spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive.  You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus spreading to others, and make sure you’re well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained on cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely monitor your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making all necessary arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It’s up to you and your family/household to decide: A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. On arrival, you will be provided with a ‘welcome pack’ with information about what to expect during your stay. You will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments, so you don’t need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you’re unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or for any COVID-19 related medical costs. The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that didn’t need hospital care, this will be: If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. The Ministry of Health is recording testing data by region and by ethnicity within regions. This helps us ensure we have an accurate picture of any future spread of COVID-19 and can respond in the best way. It also helps to keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 data Last modified: 7 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have been in contact with them to see if they have also been infected. This process is called contact tracing. There are 2 types of contacts: Health services will give advice to both of these types of contacts on what they need to do. The Ministry of Health has more information about contact tracing, including: Detailed description of how contact tracing works (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a test, someone visiting a doctor when ill, or calling Healthline. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes: You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Last modified: 3 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you’re sick, stay home. When exercising in public, keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know if possible. You can do activities like: At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers and also comply with the whitebait regulations. Community sports are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. A group of 100 includes all players, officials and spectators. A sports field can have multiple defined spaces by keeping: We recommend groups be prevented from intermingling or sharing common facilities at the same time. For example, a game of rugby can occur so long as there are no more than 100 people on the field, including players and officials. If that field has a stand on either side, up to 100 people can gather in each stand if they are kept separate from those from the other stand and from players and umpires on the field. Organisers and the person in control of the premises are responsible for collecting contact tracing information. Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link) Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Gatherings, events and public venues Exercise and recreation is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, there's a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others, touch common equipment or surfaces, or need rescuing or medical care. You can do activities that are local and safe. Only exercise alone or with the people in your extended bubble. You need to keep a 2 metre distance from people who aren’t in your bubble, and you are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. The most important thing is to stay safe. Do low-risk activities, so you don’t need rescuing or medical care. Now isn't the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you’re experienced you can do more activities. These include: Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. Boating, jet-skiing, yachting and scuba diving isn't allowed. Team sports and training is also prohibited. Stick to your local area. For example, go to your nearest beach or park, not your favourite one. You can not stay overnight at a bach or holiday home. If you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2 metre distance from others, go home — go out later. We recommend driving as short a distance as you can and still do the activity. Find detailed information about sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. Hunters can not stay in DOC huts or campgrounds under Alert Level 3 and hunting must also be consistent with the usual local area restrictions. This is not the time to take up hunting as a new hobby. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you want to go fishing you can do so from a wharf or the shore, but don’t cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating isn't allowed. You can fish for whitebait at Alert Level 3 during the whitebaiting season. You can only fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and do not use motorised vehicles to get to your fishing spot. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge, and do not enter the water or use a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it’s close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. Last modified: 26 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Last modified: 8 June 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you’re leaving Auckland, please travel safely. While social gatherings of up to 100 are allowed outside of Auckland, you’re encouraged to behave as if you’re carrying your extra restrictions with you. Consider avoiding gatherings of more than 10 people, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you have any cold or flu symptoms at all, we recommend not travelling — stay at home and get tested. Remember to be considerate and ensure you practise good hygiene, maintain physical distancing, wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance and as always, wash your hands and cough and sneeze into your elbow. If someone in your whānau dies: Choosing a funeral director is an important decision to make after someone dies. You do not have to use a funeral director if you do not want — you can organise everything yourself if you want to. If you decide to use a funeral director, We recommend this being be one of the first things you organise. If the person has died from: You might not be able to say goodbye to a loved one, in the way you ’re used to, and this could be very challenging. Read through the basic advice on mental wellbeing and call or text 1737 . Talk with a trained counsellor, for free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Looking after your mental wellbeing Up to 100 people can attend a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 2. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. The organiser legally must ensure that contact tracing requirements are met. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) There are extra restrictions on social gatherings, funerals and tangihanga in Auckland at Alert Level 2. A funeral or tangihanga with less than 10 people in each defined space does not need to be registered or authorised. The 10 person limit does not apply to kaikaranga , kaikōrero , members of the clergy or staff who are attending. We recommend the organiser make sure that contact tracing requirements are met. Funerals and tangihanga can have between 11 and 50 people if they meet extra requirements. The organiser needs to: Registering funerals and tangihanga where between 11 and 50 people will attend will help contact tracing. The 50 person limit does not apply to kaikaranga , kaikōrero , members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) More information about gatherings and events A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals, tangihanga and burials are allowed at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people in the same bubble may go to view the tūpapaku, the person who has died, by appointment with the funeral director. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in groups of up to 10 from the same bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. We recommend no food or drink being served and physical distancing should be maintained between people. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga we recommend still keeping 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. The general guidance for avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. At Alert Level 3 there are strict restrictions in place for travel between regions. This is necessary to reduce the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel into or out of a region at Alert Level 3 for a funeral or tangihanga you will need to apply for an exemption. Regional travel Last modified: 1 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it’s important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in keeping New Zealand well. For more information on the 2020 flu campaign, and to see if you’re eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu website (external link) Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all alert levels. Cancer screening programmes are continuing to operate, with appropriate safeguards in place to keep participants and staff safe. It is recommended that people over 70, or with pre-existing medical conditions, confirm with their health professional if it’s safe to attend appointments. Cervical and breast screening will continue for most women. The decision to screen those with existing medical conditions will be made on a case-by-case basis. Bowel screening invitations and home testing kits will continue to be sent out. If you receive a kit in the mail, complete it and send it back as soon as possible. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) It’s important that anyone with health concerns contact Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. Seek medical advice if you’re unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. Last modified: 27 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance. If your life or property is threatened, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong, get gone”. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) Last modified: 14 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on keeping children safe and reassured. If you feel you’re not coping, it’s important to talk with a health professional. Free apps, toolkits and other digital resources are available to help you look after your mental wellbeing.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health has created a tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. This app works by scanning a QR code on a poster at participating businesses. The app then keeps track of where you have scanned so that you know where you have been. How to download the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) You can find tips and advice on how to cope with stress in times of difficulty in the Getting Through Together toolkit, developed by All Right? in partnership with the Canterbury DHB and the Mental Health Foundation. This set of online resources has practical tips to help you look after yourself and your whānau. It also includes Sparklers at Home, a resource for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home (external link) The Mentemia app provides practical tips and techniques to help you take control of your mental wellbeing. It was created by All Blacks legend and mental health advocate Sir John Kirwan, tech entrepreneur Adam Clark and an expert team of medical advisors. Mentemia (external link) The Melon app provides a health journal, resources and self-awareness tools to help you manage your emotional wellbeing. Melon also provides an online community for New Zealanders to support each other and daily webinars for health and wellbeing. Melon (external link) Just a Thought’s online courses teach you practical strategies to cope with stress. Just a Thought (external link) When we are anxious or depressed it can change the way we think, feel and act. Dealing with the tough times can be hard but you’re not alone. Find information and advice on how to look after yourself and your whanau on the depression.org.nz website. The website includes advice, information and support for: Depression.org.nz (external link) These free, virtual community events are aimed at supporting wellbeing in real-time — to help you connect you with others, learn and practise new skills, and start looking at things differently. Whakatau Mai: The Wellbeing Sessions (external link) Last modified: 14 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. Let your children talk about their feelings and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz During the COVID-19 pandemic many people have spent more time online. While the internet helps us connect with people, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. For more information on how to keep your children and young people safe online visit the following Netsafe websites: This is a good time to learn about the use of tools such as filters, parent controls and privacy settings to manage access to appropriate content, screen time and privacy. We are watching more movies and shows and playing more games than usual. The Classification Office’s website has resources and advice to help you make good choices about what your children see and play. It also has guides for parents on how to talk with older children and teens about what they’re watching, including pornography. The Classification Office (external link) You can report concerns about material you or your children have seen to Information.Unit@classificationoffice.govt.nz It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and spread damaging rumours. Netsafe provides resources and advice on a range of online safety issues such as bullying and abuse and scams. You can report an online incident to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report an incident to Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Make a non-emergency report to the police (external link) Last modified: 8 June 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Everyone’s emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It’s normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Where to go for help Last modified: 23 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support Last modified: 16 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. These guidelines will continue to be updated it as more evidence becomes available. You should work with your GP or specialist if you need help understanding your own level of risk and how best to stay healthy. People with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and some older people are at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19. At all Alert Levels, when you leave the house you need to maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) Underlying medical conditions include: Many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including: Older people, in particular those who have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Aged care facilities are susceptible to the rapid transmission of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. Overseas experience has shown a disproportionate impact from COVID-19 on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of adverse outcomes from COVID-19, particularly where there exists: People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your GP or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking (external link) We recommend pregnant women in their third trimester take extra precautions and keep themselves well at a time when the growing baby means higher oxygen demands on the mother. If you are pregnant and work in areas where there is high risk of exposure to COVID-19, for example some healthcare settings, you should discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for working differently if needed. If you can't safely work at your workplace, and can't work from home, you need to agree what your leave from work and pay arrangements will be with your employer. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) At Alert Level 1 there are no restriction, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about doing a risk assessment in your workplace to look at what the risk is for you and how it can be reduced. At Alert Level 2 there is some freedom to move around and connect with close family, whānau and friends. If you are an at-risk person, you’ll need to take extra precautions when doing this. Things you can do to stay safe: There is more detailed guidance available for people who are at higher risk of COVID-19 at Alert Level 2. This guidance includes advice on shopping, work, socialising, travel and recreation: Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 69 KB] There is more detailed guidance for people who are at higher risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. This includes people who are aged 70 and over and/or have certain existing health conditions, which may put them at risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. Find out the list of health conditions and the guidance on how you can live your life as normally as possible, including work and enjoying safe activities, without compromising your health and wellbeing at Alert Level 3. You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will be modified to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your general practitioner if you need further help understanding your own level of risk. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus. This helps to protect yourself and others. Staying at home if you’re sick is still the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. Face coverings can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Washing your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. It will keep the virus off your hands, so you won’t spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. Physical distancing is an important way we can protect ourselves against COVID-19.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean it first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. Last modified: 26 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them getting onto your hands. Put any used tissues in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. If other people touch these surfaces they may get sick. Last modified: 8 June 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If the virus reappears in the community, keeping track of where you've been will help our health services to quickly trace close contacts and break the chain of transmission. If you use NZ COVID Tracer, it’s a lot easier for health officials to let you know about any risk of exposure. Download on the Apple Store (external link) Get on Google Play (external link) To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the disease. How the Ministry of Health and district health boards trace people who have been in contact with a case of COVID-19 (external link) Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can, otherwise use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of the 3 Ws: You can keep track of your movements by: The Ministry of Health has created a tracing app — NZ COVID Tracer. The app helps you to create a digital diary of where you have been. You can: NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) If you have questions or feedback about the app or any problems using it: Information about privacy and COVID-19 (external link) You can use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet to keep track of where you've been if you do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. The booklet is available in English. We'll have more languages available soon. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last someone around 1 month. If you're ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. Email us if you'd like a booklet and are unable to print your own. Email Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Email Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz How to use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet: Get your QR code poster for your business Alternative contact tracing systems for people who do not use the app Last modified: 18 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Physical distancing, sometimes known as “social distancing”, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who don’t live together and aren’t family/whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Even if you’re wearing a face covering you we recommend still physically distancing. At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. What we can do: You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you’re feeling sick or have any symptoms of COVID-19, cold and flu-like symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. Outside of your home, you legally must continue to keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. Workers legally must maintain physical distance in the workplace. Last modified: 14 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you have cold or flu symptoms we recommend you stay home, and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. Symptoms include: These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. COVID-19 symptoms Staying at home if you’re sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you’re waiting for COVID-19 test results, and have been told you need to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If somebody you live with develops symptoms of COVID-19 they should call their regular health professional. If they do not have a regular health professional they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re unwell, we recommend not sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you’re feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can be opened. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible and keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. While you’re unwell, do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. It's okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. We recommend also avoiding visiting others if you’re unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, we recommend washing them thoroughly with soap and water, putting them in the dishwasher for cleaning, or washing them in the sink. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Don't share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but we recommend not preparing food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate to others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house, both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for hand-hygiene purposes. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. We recommend doing your own laundry. Dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person can be washed with other people’s items. Don't shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide a supply of laundry items to you. If you don't have a washing machine, wait until you’re no longer unwell before taking your laundry to a laundrette. Last modified: 14 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Don’t touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: The same goes for hand sanitiser, use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially: Always wash your hands: You can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. As long as you use soap, cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. Last modified: 30 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You need to wear a face covering on public transport. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. A face covering helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are only 1 part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. Make a face covering At Alert Level 1, you do not need to wear face coverings because there is no evidence of community transmission of COVID-19. We recommend being prepared by having a supply of face coverings for everyone who usually lives in your household. Add some to your household emergency kit. At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft at Alert Level 2. This includes trains, buses and ferries. They do not need to be worn: These groups are likely to be in each other’s bubbles as part of a registered group or have space to physically distance. Also, face coverings do not need to be worn: There will be other times when it's not required. For example: Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. Children and young people do not need to wear face coverings at school. This is because the risk of infection within the school environment is low. Other public health control measures will be in place including: It’s not mandatory to wear a face covering. Wearing face coverings is advised where it’s not possible to practise physical distancing or to carry out contact tracing. For example, in crowded spaces on Tertiary Education Organisation campuses, or teaching and learning situations where close physical contact cannot be avoided. Teachers do not need to wear face coverings at Alert Level 2. Other public health control measures will be in place including: At Alert Level 2, when not on public transport, we recommend you consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft at Alert Level 3. This includes trains, buses, and ferries. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people. When you wear a face covering, it's important you use it safely. How to wear a face covering safely Most people can use non-medical-grade face coverings. These face coverings prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others and could help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade face coverings can be either single-use or reusable. Non-medical-grade face coverings do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade face coverings online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. If you do not have a face covering, you don’t need to rush out and buy one. You can use another kind of covering, like a bandana, scarf or t-shirt. How to make a face covering At raised Alert Levels, people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are advised to avoid contact with the public. If you need to go out, and feel you are vulnerable, you may wish to discuss with your health provider whether using a medical mask is best for you. Medical masks are also known as surgical masks. These masks protect the wearer from becoming infected, and from spreading diseases to others. Medical masks form a small part of personal protective equipment (PPE). They are required to conform with Standard AS/NZS 1716:2012 ‘Respiratory protective devices’. They are not reusable. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical masks are available for health care workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. Last modified: 28 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You need to wear a face covering on public transport. Take a clean piece of cotton material — for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase. Cut into a square, if it's not already. Fold it from the top inwards a third of the way down. Fold from the bottom inwards, a third of the way up. You should have an rectangle of material, folded into 3 layers. Loop your hair ties or elastic bands over the ends of the folded material. Leave enough room in the middle to comfortably cover your mouth and nose. Fold the outer edges inwards. This adds an extra layer of material over your mouth and nose. It also helps hold the face covering together. Pick up the face covering by the bands. Loop them over 1 ear at a time. Wear the face covering with the join against your face. Make your own face covering with just a handkerchief or t-shirt and 2 hair ties. Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut out a rectangle from the water-resistant fabric for the middle layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take 1 piece of your cotton fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it doesn’t catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of cotton fabric together. Make sure the cotton that will be on the outside of your face covering is turned inwards here. Lay the water-resistant fabric on top of your cotton fabric. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face covering in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. Last modified: 27 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You need to wear a face covering on public transport. Never share face coverings with other people. We do not recommend face coverings be worn by: Don’t re-use a mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. Make sure it is: Before you put on your face covering, clean and dry your hands. Use either: Place the face covering over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face covering should: Use either: If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your face covering down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: Take your face covering off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the face covering, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth face coverings by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the face covering completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp face covering. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face coverings. Use either: The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face covering safely. Last modified: 27 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: We can look after our physical health by: If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Government agencies are working together to provide financial support, related to: How to get financial support Last modified: 14 August 2020
New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Looking for information in other languages? Information in 15+ languages
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. New Zealand’s borders are currently closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you can not get home. How to plan your travel to NZ and what will happen when you arrive. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. Information about leaving your house, local travel, and regional travel.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The New Zealand borders are closed for all but critical travel — protecting public health in New Zealand is paramount. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come home if you are: You do not need approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling. Advice if you are planning to travel to New Zealand (external link) There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. List of exceptions from Immigration New Zealand (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) To help stop the spread of COVID-19, people who do arrive in New Zealand legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine at an isolation facility. Returnees will also be tested for COVID-19 during their stay. About managed isolation and quarantine, and what to expect (external link) Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. Advice if you are planning on leaving New Zealand The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. We recommend you also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from managed isolation. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) Exemptions from managed isolation (external link) Last modified: 23 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. While our borders are closed, New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have a legal right to come home. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. People are tested for COVID-19 around day 3 and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave. Over 35,000 people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. Welcome pack: Managed isolation facility for returnees to New Zealand [PDF 1.3 MB] (external link) The managed isolation and quarantine website has everything you need to know, including: Managed isolation and quarantine website (external link) Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Releases from managed isolation are only issued in very limited circumstances, and where the public health risk is low and can be managed. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website, run by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE), has information about exemptions, including: Guidance on exemptions at the managed isolation and quarantine website (external link) Last modified: 26 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Current onshore visitor visas that are due to expire between 4 September and the end of October 2020 will be automatically extended for 5 months. The Government is also going to introduce a new COVID-19 short-term visitor visa to help temporary migrants who are unable to leave New Zealand due to international travel restrictions when their current visa expires. Key updates from Immigration New Zealand (external link) You can use international air services to travel home. There may, however, be limited commercial options available. If you’re unable to secure a ticket, please contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. We’re sympathetic to individuals who are in New Zealand and unable to return home at the moment. Your employer-assisted temporary work visa is extended by 6 months if you: This includes employer-assisted temporary work visas that: This extension does not apply to any partner or dependent child who holds a visa based on their relationship with you. Their expiry date will remain the same. Your work, student, visitor, limited or interim visa was extended to 25 September 2020 if: This extension was made under the original Epidemic Management Notice. A confirmation of this was emailed to all visa holders. Certain visas have not been extended. This applies if your visa expires after 9 July and you have: Your current visa expiry remains the same. You need to: This includes partners or dependent children who hold a visa based on the relationship with an employer-assisted work visa. For more information: Immigration New Zealand has increased its visa processing capacity, and has resumed processing temporary entry and residence visa applications. Visa processing will be prioritised for those already in New Zealand. The Government has postponed: This is a temporary measure. Immigration New Zealand will continue to reassess and determine when these programmes can resume. Key updates about visas and travel to New Zealand at Immigration New Zealand (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand (external link) Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals in New Zealand Last modified: 2 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) We recommend you avoid taking an overseas cruise due to COVID-19. The virus can spread quickly on board cruises due to the close contact between passengers. Some cruise ships have been put into quarantine and countries have denied entry to ports, which can have significant consequences for travellers. If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand Some countries require you to have a negative COVID-19 test before you travel. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. We recommend you also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from managed isolation. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) Exemptions from managed isolation (external link) Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand’s borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. You still have a legal right to come home if you’re: There are a small number of limited exceptions to the closure of New Zealand's borders for people who aren’t citizens or residents. Border exceptions and how to apply for one at Immigration New Zealand (external link) People returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand, you must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay. You may be able to get an exemption from managed isolation. Exemptions from managed isolation and how to apply (external link) What to expect in managed isolation or quarantine (external link) The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Charges for managed isolation (external link) There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. We have put in place a robust system for exemptions from managed isolation. This is to ensure we balance the needs of people facing exceptional circumstances with the need to protect the New Zealand public from COVID-19. Exemptions from managed isolations (external link) Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. We recommend you contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. Contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from, or transiting through, areas affected by border measures. Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessels can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are also exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visa information for critical workers in the maritime sector (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues, and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We are also unable to assist you in booking a commercial flight. Get emergency consular by calling: More help from SafeTravel (external link) (external link) You will not be able to go to the shops when you first arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. What to bring with you to New Zealand (external link) What happens when you arrive back in New Zealand depends on whether you arrive by air or sea. When you arrive by air, you will be screened for COVID-19 symptoms at the airport. If you have symptoms or are waiting for the results of a test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to an isolation facility. Both types of facilities are in hotels. Welcome pack: Managed isolation facility for returnees to New Zealand [PDF 1.3 MB] (external link) When you arrive by sea, you may complete your isolation on your vessel. Advice about what happens when you arrive in NZ, and being transferred to an isolation or quarantine facility (external link) What to expect at a managed isolation or quarantine facility (external link) Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Information about leaving your house, local travel, and regional travel. Advice for when you leave your house including how to lower the risk of transmission. Advice for travelling locally including, public transport, how to travel safely, and other ways of travel. Advice for travelling between different regions of New Zealand.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You need to wear a face covering on public transport. At Alert Level 2, it's important that you follow public health measures and consider others. Do everything you can to reduce the risk of transmission. Exercising safely There are times when it's important that you not be out and about. From 11:59pm Sunday 30 August you legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, take extra care when you leave your house. Guidance for at-risk people At Alert Level 3, we recommend people stay at home as much as possible except for exercise, going to work or school, or visiting local services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness should you contract COVID-19, you need to be especially careful. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 More information about exercising safely From 11:59pm Sunday 30 August you legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information Staying close to home is one of the most important things we can do to reduce the risk of spreading the disease. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered “local” will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. You can exercise at parks or beaches within your region, but the closer to home the better. Be safe while out exercising. Keep 2 metres away from anybody not in your bubble. Make minimal trips. Most of all during this time, we encourage you to continue to connect with one another. Stay in touch with your older relatives and vulnerable people, talk to your friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone and see if they need your support. Acts of kindness and maintaining these connections is essential while we work to stop the spread of COVID-19. Last modified: 29 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. You need to wear a face covering on public transport. At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way: Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk on public transport: You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information You can use a private vehicle for transport. Please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine. Keep a 2 metre distance from other pedestrians. Take extra care if you need to step out into the street as there will be more traffic at Alert Level 2. If you’re healthy and don't have COVID-19 -related symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Guidelines when travelling by taxi or ride-share: At Alert Level 3, travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people, like on public transport or in shops. Don’t travel outside of your region unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. You can use public transport to travel within your local area, but only for the following reasons: Maintain physical distancing from other people on public transport, unless you are travelling with people in your bubble. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your bubble. If you don't have COVID-19 related symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services for only for the following reasons: You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're in a taxi or ride-share. To help limit the spread of any virus, we recommend those who are unwell stay at home. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . As well as general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. If you're a passenger, sit in the rear passenger seats only — avoid sitting in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you’re the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle. Most cars normally have 3 rear passenger seats. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing services need to wear a face covering. Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information if not already provided, for example, electronically through an app or booking system. More details about transport restrictions (external link) Last modified: 7 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. If you’re leaving Auckland, please travel safely. While social gatherings of up to 100 are allowed outside of Auckland, you’re encouraged to behave as if you’re carrying your extra restrictions with you. Consider avoiding gatherings of more than 10 people, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you have any cold or flu symptoms at all, we recommend not travelling — stay at home and get tested. Remember to be considerate and ensure you practise good hygiene, maintain physical distancing, wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance and as always, wash your hands and cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can travel between regions that are at Alert Level 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Guidelines for travelling around the country: Do not travel: You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew including: You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Last modified: 26 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Data and statistics about the response to COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Get posters like the QR code poster, hygiene posters, physical distancing posters, and posters for the social sector and healthcare. Resources to help your business operate safely — including posters, signs and contact tracing registers. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Information and advice translated into different languages. Information and advice in other formats for people with particular accessibility needs.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Information and advice in other formats for people with particular accessibility needs. Advice in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information in Easy Read. Information in large print and audio formats.
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: We're currently reviewing this content. The advice is from when New Zealand was last at Alert Levels 3 and 2. It may be out of date. Last modified: 1 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Information about Alert Levels 3 and 2 including golden rules for business, face coverings, staying safe and contact tracing. Information about Alert Level 2 including face coverings, education, travel and exercise. Information about COVID-19, including assessment and testing. Contact details for a range of services that can support you during COVID-19. Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] We're currently reviewing this content. The advice is from when New Zealand was last at Alert Levels 3 and 2. It may be out of date. Information about Alert Level 3 including staying home, food and shopping, essential services, and recreation and exercise. Information and advice on how people can look after their mental wellbeing. Information about renting and tenancy during COVID-19, including the rent increase freeze and tenancy terminations. Last modified: 13 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. 24 August update: Auckland to stay at level 3, remainder of NZ at level 2 (external link) 24 August update: Face coverings will be mandatory on public transport (external link) 24 August update: Regional update (external link) Help us stop the spread - Please do your bit - NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Protective Equipment (PPE) (external link) Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link)  Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance - Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) We're currently reviewing this content. The advice is from when New Zealand was last at Alert Levels 3 and 2. It may be out of date. Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates, and answers to your FAQs. What is COVID-19? Symptoms (external link) Dedicated 0800 number (external link) Advice on self isolation (external link) How it spreads (external link) Prevention (external link) Immunisation (external link) New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. YouTube playlist about Alert Level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education, including tertiary, at Alert Level 2 (external link) Workplaces and businesses at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and transport at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Disability support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) YouTube playlist about Alert Level 3 (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) YouTube playlist about wellbeing (external link) It's OK to ask for help (external link) It's OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) YouTube playlist of general COVID-19 information (external link) Are you and your whanau unwell? (external link) Food and other things you need to live (external link) Where can I get help with money? (external link) Where can I get financial support? (external link) Accommodation support (external link) Total Mobility Subsidy to 30 June 2020 (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) Last modified: 12 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Call 111 immediately in an emergency. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: Many government agencies have language support available, if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Last modified: 8 June 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 and testing in New Zealand. You can get data on: Data on current cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand (external link) A cluster is a group of 10 or more COVID-19 cases that are linked because the people were in the same place together. Data on significant clusters in New Zealand (external link) The Ministry of Health provides a daily update on a range of statistics for New Zealand including the number of tests completed each day and over the previous 7 days. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health is also recording tests by region and by ethnicity within regions. This gives us an accurate picture of the country’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at risk groups with underlying health conditions. Testing by region and ethnicity on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports which help understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Data and statistics about Managed Isolation and Quarantine is published by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. Information includes: Managed Isolation and Quarantine data (external link) Last modified: 27 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. There is no media conference scheduled for Monday 7 September. Displaying 1-10 of 65 updates 07 Sep 2020 There is no media conference today. The Ministry of Health published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. 05 Sep 2020 We are sad to report the second COVID-19 related death in as many days. 04 Sep 2020 We are sad to report the death of a man at Middlemore Hospital, linked to COVID-19. 04 Sep 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2. 04 Sep 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 03 Sep 2020 Arrangements are in place to protect jurors when attending court. 03 Sep 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 02 Sep 2020 You can use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet to keep track of where you've been and who you’ve seen. 02 Sep 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 01 Sep 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident. Last modified: 30 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453. Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453. Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Auckland is now at Alert Level 2, but with extra restrictions on social gatherings, funerals and tangihanga. These extra restrictions will help stop the spread of COVID-19. Auckland restrictions on social gatherings, funerals and tangihanga The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Advice about life at Alert Level 2 This will remain in place until at least Sunday 6 September 2020. From 11:59pm on Sunday 30 August  face coverings must be worn on public transport. This includes trains, buses, and cross-harbour ferries. There are some people who don't need to wear a face covering, like children under 12. Face covering advice and requirements Last modified: 30 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Last modified: 2 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 11 August media conference Last modified: 16 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Kia ora koutou katoa, good evening everyone. After 102 days, we have our first cases of COVID-19 outside of a managed isolation or quarantine facility in New Zealand. Shortly I will ask Dr Bloomfield to set out the details of the cases involved. While we have all worked incredibly hard to prevent this scenario, we have also planned and prepared for it. We have a resurgence plan that we are now activating. Their plan is based on everything that we have learned as a country to date about COVID-19. It's also based on what we've seen from resurgence overseas. Both plans though are of course based on what we know about the cases in front of us. So, I will pass to Dr Bloomfield who will set out those details, then I will share with you the decisions that have been made and response through meetings with officials and also after ministers convened this evening and set out what it will mean for everyone. First, Dr Bloomfield. Thank you Prime Minister. Kia ora. So, as the PM has said, we actually have four confirmed cases of COVID-19 in one family acquired from an unknown source. The first case to present was a person in their 50s who lives in South Auckland. That person was swabbed yesterday when they presented to their general practitioner with symptoms. That test was processed twice and returned positive, and a second swab today also returned a positive result. Importantly the person has no history of overseas travel, and as per our usual protocol, we worked very closely with Auckland Regional Public Health to interview the person. We've sprung into action, and in fact all those family members residing in the same household - there were another six - were all tested, and three of the six have returned positive test results. The other three were negative. Other close contacts from workplaces have already been contacted and put into self-isolation and are being tested whether symptomatic or asymptomatic. All close contacts remain in self-isolation for 14 days regardless of their test result, while casual contacts go into self-isolation and can only leave self-isolation once they return a negative test. In addition, we are working over the next few days to test all people working at our borders and in our managed isolation facilities to help us trace the possible origin of this case where we don't currently know the source. Now, there are no barriers to anyone who has cold or flu like symptoms getting tested. Testing is free, and as I have said previously, and it's even more relevant now, if you are offered a test, please take it. In Auckland, the four community testing centres are Northcote, Grafton, Henderson and Wiri will be operating with more staff and for longer hours over coming days. The testing centres that are in Auckland and the Waitemata and Counties Manukau DHBs are already preparing to receive more people and there will be further details on the Ministry website tonight. Those DHBs are also planning pop-up clinics over coming days and they will publicise locations and hours of these clinics. We will work closely with DHBs and primary care around the country to ensure additional testing capacity is available to meet the expected increase in demand from people with symptoms. And I strongly encourage any New Zealander with symptoms whether in the Auckland region or outside it to please be tested. We have been saying for some weeks it was inevitable that New Zealand would get another case of community transmission. This is a tricky virus. We have been working on the basis that it could be at any time and been preparing for that time. That time is now. The health system is well prepared and the important thing now is that we stop the spread of the virus in our community. As we did in the early days of the virus emerging, we need to stamp it out. There are things that every single New Zealander now needs to do. We have done these before. Continue or get back to stringent hand hygiene - washing for 20 seconds with soap and water or regular use of an alcohol-based hand gel. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. If you or a family member are unwell wherever you live in New Zealand, stay at home and seek advice from your GP or Healthline about getting a test. Practice physical distancing of two metres wherever possible, and most recently our advice around the use of masks which has been updated. Please consider wearing a mask in spaces or places where it is hard to physically distance. If you have any concerns, please seek advice from Healthline or your GP. If you have not already, please take this opportunity to download the NZ COVID Tracer app. It will be an essential tool in helping us contact you if we need to as part of our follow up on this case. And finally, our contact tracing team will of course be in contact with anyone who may be identified as a contact, whether casual or close of this case. Please be responsive if you are contacted, return the call and assist our efforts to rapidly identify and isolate and test any possible cases. The case is a wakeup call against any complacency that may have set in. We cannot afford to let this virus spread. We are working to not let it happen here, that what has happened in other places they have seen resurgences like this. We have done this before and we can and will do it again. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you. As you will have heard from Dr Bloomfield, we have four cases all in one household. More than one place however is involved. Contact tracing is underway but currently we know that of those workplaces it means that we are not talking about one distinct suburb in Auckland who may likely have been affected by those who have tested positive. You also have heard that our first cases still leave questions to be answered. The most important of which is tracing this case back to its original origin. The reason that is important is because when we're more able to do that we can be much more certain about tracing and isolating all close contacts. When we can't do that, it means we have to take a precautionary approach. At this stage, we have not yet been able to determine the source of these cases. There is no immediate link that we have found as yet to a managed isolation facility that we are aware of, and there is no yet known connection to any high-risk individuals such as those who work at our border. Therefore, we need to take a much more precautionary approach until we can find the source of this case and make sure that we reduce the risk of wider spread. One of the most important lessons we've learned from overseas is the need to go hard and go early and stamp out flare ups to avoid the risk of wider outbreak. As disruptive as it is, a strong and rapid health response remains the best long-term economic response. In line with our precautionary approach, we will be asking Aucklanders to take swift action with us. As of 12 noon tomorrow, Wednesday 12 August, we will be moving Auckland to Level 3 restrictions for a period of three days until midnight on Friday. These three days will give us time to assess the situation, gather information, make sure we have widespread contact tracing so we can find out more about how this case arose and make decisions on how to respond to it once we have further information. Let me set out what that means for Aucklanders and the rest of New Zealand. We are asking people in Auckland to stay home to stop the spread. This means doing the simple things that you will already be familiar with to prevent picking up the virus or passing it onto others. First, act as if you have COVID and as if the people around you have COVID. At Level 3, you are asked to stay at home in your bubble other than for essential movements such as going to the supermarket or local recreation. If you are in Auckland, you must work from home unless you are an essential service worker. All schools and childcare facilities in Auckland are closed as of tomorrow morning except for the children of essential service workers. And those who are involved will remember that at Level 3 we allow you to access schools and early childhood for Level 3 for essential service workers only. All public facilities; bars, restaurants, and businesses must close by midday tomorrow. Gatherings of more than ten people in Auckland again will be restricted and are restricted again for funerals, tangihanga and wedding services only. And the rest of the country gatherings of course though, I'll outline in further detail momentarily. Travelling into Auckland is prohibited unless you normally reside there and are travelling home. If you are currently in Auckland but do not normally reside there you also can leave to go home. But we are asking you to be very conscious of your health and if you begin to display any symptoms please get tested. We are defining the area covered as Auckland and covered by Level 3 restrictions as the geographic boundary of the Auckland Super City which extends from Wellsford in the north to Pukekohe in the south. Police will be issuing further guidance on parameters including road block use first thing in the morning. As you will recall all key services; supermarkets, pharmacies, medical centres, they do remain open. So food and supplies will continue to be readily available. Food delivery is also available as you recall at Level 3. Please do not rush to the supermarket tonight, you'll recall as when we were in Level 3 on our last occasion supermarkets will be open, there will be ample stock on the shelves. There is no reason to go out and make any purchases this evening. If you operated as an essential service under Level 4 and Level 3 last time, then those are the settings we revert to at Level 3 again. If in doubt stay at home tomorrow until you have clarity from your employer. That then brings me to the rest of New Zealand. We will be moving the rest of the country outside of Auckland to Level 2. This will come into place from midday tomorrow and run through until midnight on Friday, so the same period of time that we are applying restrictions for Auckland. That means social distancing applies and mass gatherings in that time will need to be need to be limited to 100 people. And of course all of the other guidance you will be used to from Level 2 applies again as well. I know that this information will be very difficult to receive. We had all hoped not to find ourselves in this position again. But we had also prepared for it and as a team we have also been here before. We know if we have a plan and stick to it we can work our way through very difficult and unknown situations. Before I finish I want to talk briefly about some of the additional plans that we have in place. As the Director General has set out, Auckland Regional Health will be standing up a mass testing programme across the region where we will seek to test tens of thousands of people over the coming days in order to understand any potential unidentified cases in the community. It's our intention to test everyone who works at the border and everyone who works in managed isolation facilities with a focus on Auckland. We will also be undertaking wide testing of those who are symptomatic in Auckland. Please so I ask you don't visit your GP or a community testing station if you are perfectly well. We are seeking to test those who are symptomatic and those who are working in those high risk areas. More details of the location of these setbacks and guidance on who should get a test we will be providing again in the morning. A final word on mask use. We now know that these can be effective in reducing the spread of COVID. If you are in Auckland we ask that you use a mask when you are accessing essential services. For the rest of the country we advise their use if you're in a place with social distancing is difficult, so for instance public transport. Let me finish by saying this: while this initial three-day lockdown will mainly affect the Auckland region, I am asking the team of 5 million to stand really again as well. Together we've beaten the virus before and with fast action and by acting together we can do so again. We have come too far to go backwards. I am asking New Zealanders to once again be strong and be kind. If you know someone in Auckland, give them a call, reach out, check that they're okay. If you're in Auckland, please make sure that your neighbours are okay, ensure they are looked after and that they have the supplies and the support they need. We know what to do. We know what to do because we've successfully done it before. Please stay home if you're in Auckland. Be vigilant. We will get through this. We're happy to take questions. Media: [Indistinct] over the next four days is it likely that those Level 3 restrictions will be extended until you find the source? PM Jacinda Ardern: Of course it is about gathering as much information as possible in the next three days and we won't just do that through contact tracing. We will also do that through wide testing, not only of those obviously working in those high risk areas - and that's why we intend to test everyone at the border - but also in our managed isolation facilities and those symptomatic. If we are unable to identify the source, what we should identify is whether or not we have wider geographic spread and whether or not we have a number of cases beyond the family that has been identified here. Dr Bloomfield? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I think you've summarised it well Prime Minister. There are two things we want to do and we will be working a pace to do over the next three days. The first is to identify the extent of this outbreak and control it. The second is to identify the source. Media: [Inaudible question] PM Jacinda Ardern: Well I'll leave that to Dr Bloomfield who has the information. Of course those workplaces that are affected are being contacted. But I think the important point I wanted to make is that it would not have been possible to successfully isolate one small part of Auckland from the interviews that are being undertaken, a precautionary approach does point to us needing unfortunately to ask all of Auckland to take a precautionary approach with us. Media: And none of those workplaces had any connection to the border or travel in any way? PM Jacinda Ardern: Not that we've identified but of course those original- those interviews have been undertaken with the family and the original case as we speak. And then from there moving into the wider workplaces and interviewing others. But Dr Bloomfield… Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Two things to say there and I don't have the detail of the workplaces with me but the two workplaces in question, immediate action has been taken to identify close contacts, isolate those people and in fact shut down one of the workplaces so that further wide testing can happen. Media: Are they customer facing? Are they workplaces where you would see a lot people coming out? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Just based on the conversations I've had, no they are not. Neither of them are. PM Jacinda Ardern: I'll just come here. Media: What about people who have recently been to Auckland such as yourself. PM Jacinda Ardern: Yes. And that's where we're asking people to be very mindful of their own health and wellbeing. We're asking that if they feel unwell, immediately isolate, seek advice and seek a test if that's the advice you receive. But at this stage that's the extent of the advice for those who have recently been in Auckland. Media: What about yourself, you're still obviously on the campaign trail hitting up lots of different parts of the country, are you going to change your plans because of this? PM Jacinda Ardern: Yes, I will. I anticipate that over at least the next three days I'll likely be based here in Wellington. Media: {Indistinct] Longer than three days though won't it? PM Jacinda Ardern: I'm not going to speculate at this stage. We've set out a plan that should give us much more information in order to base further decisions. The view was move quickly with a precautionary approach, with the hope of course that we can ascertain that information, that we'll be able to limit the effect on other New Zealanders as much as possible. The alternative is to wait. That runs the risk, if we do have a wider number of individuals affected, of the spread continuing to escalate. Media: Why did it take so long for you to tell the public? PM Jacinda Ardern: So I was advised at 4 o'clock this afternoon whilst I was in the van travelling directly here to Wellington. In that time, additional interviewing took place of those individuals to see if we could ascertain the connection to any high risk areas such as borders or MIQ because that may have given us the option of isolating and contact tracing. We haven't been able to ascertain those connections. Also that gave a chance for ministers with power to act to be convened, to make sure that the orders that need to be in place were able to be drafted and just to ensure that all of the information we needed to provide the public. We have moved though very, very quickly as you can see from the amount that's happened in that space of time. Media: [Inaudible] PM Jacinda Ardern: Yes, sorry, Derek(*)? Media: If all Aucklanders are supposed to stay at home, does that mean no movement in and out of the super city as well? PM Jacinda Ardern: Correct. We're asking those that are- only, those who are returning home to enter into Auckland, and only those who are leaving to go home to exit Auckland. Those who reside there, we are asking to stay there. The whole point of this precautionary approach is to try and isolate any potential spread outside of that region and to other areas. Media: How likely is it that these four cases are self-contained, or can the public expect that we might see more cases in the coming days? PM Jacinda Ardern: Given we haven't - and I'll let Dr Bloomfield - given we haven't yet identified the original source case; I'd say it is likely we will see other cases as we start tracing that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, we're expecting to see other cases. And as was the situation earlier in the year; we want to find all those other cases as soon as possible and isolate- identify and isolate any contacts. Hence the work that is going in, and has been going in since 3 o'clock today to ramp up the capacity and capability for testing - both this evening, including at urgent care centres across Auckland, but also in the morning. And there will be pop up clinics as well as longer hours and more extensive testing at those existing clinics. Media: [Inaudible] PM Jacinda Ardern: Henry(*)? Yep. Media: Given the low Level of surveillance testing and given the fact that this case is not immediately [indistinct] the border, can we be sure that COVID ever really was stamped out or is there a possibility that this has been somewhere in Auckland since March? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: I think if you reflect back to that period of time when we were coming down through Level 3 and 2, we did extensive testing right across the country, and we- including a broad ethnicity spread as well. So, yes, I think we can be confident. And the fact that we've gone over 100 days, again, I think lends- if you look at the number of tests that have been done and the geographical and ethnicity spread of those tests, I think we can be very confident. So, this is- but this is why we have continued that community surveillance testing of symptomatic people, and it shows that it was the right thing to do. And now we've got, you know, we've also got a clear plan in place about what to do. PM Jacinda Ardern: Keeping in mind, that even if you've got undetected cases in your community, very unfortunately, at some point one will elevate and escalate into your hospital system. We have not seen that, but that's the other indicator if you've got undetected transmission in your community, and we have not seen that. Clare(*)? Media: Realistically, if you are expecting more cases to come up, the decision at the end of the three days will be whether or not there is another 2 weeks or so at Level 3 for Auckland, or a move to Level 4 if there are more cases? PM Jacinda Ardern: I, again, I don't wish to predetermine that at this point. If, for instance, there's a scenario where we're able to rapidly identify the source case, we have confidence of our Level of isolation and contact tracing of all close contacts around that case. That is a potential scenario, but again, that is why we're giving ourselves that 72 hours to do that large scale rapid testing, isolation, and contact tracing. And we will be updating everyone on Friday about what our expectations are of the next step. In the meantime, daily updates will give people a sense of the progress that's being made, and the information we're able to gather. Media: Dr Bloomfield, are you comfortable with that 72 hours or did you advise the Government that it should, in fact, be longer than that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: In fact, there was very quick and unanimous agreement amongst officials, and also in our discussions with our colleagues in Auckland, that the three days would give us a good amount of time to do quite extensive testing and the contact tracing - which is already well underway - to identify any possible close contacts and casual contacts, have them tested. And so, the three days is a good amount of time for us to be able to get good information about the extent of the outbreak, and whether it is contained. And also, the link back to where that case might have come from. PM Jacinda Ardern: Just keeping in mind, these are very significant decisions; moving an entire city, and New Zealand's largest city, into Level 3 restrictions is not a decision we take lightly. We need to make sure we have as much information as possible, and so this- and this move means that we can be cautious but also make sure that we have more information before we make any decisions that have a longer term impact. We also are mindful that if we make decisions that have a longer term impact, at that point we need to be talking about other financial supports and so on that would be necessary. This gives us a window to have a good assessment over what it is that has emerged today. Media: And on the logistics of Level 3 again, last time there were butchers and greengrocers - that sort of came into controversy - are we looking at them being closed, or this time will they allowed to be open? PM Jacinda Ardern: We've kept the same restrictions that you will recall from Level 3, are in place again at Level 3. So, do keep in mind that that actually allows takeaways and services that weren't able to be in place at Level 4. Media: Can you tell us a little bit more about the cases, what are the ages of the confirmed cases? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: At this point I would rather do that tomorrow, because I would like to get- have a discussion with the family- have had a discussion with the family. Yes, there are, I can say, that the ages do include one child. What I would say is that the child that is a case is a pre-schooler who does not attend in early childhood education facility. Media: What symptoms are the cases showing, are they quite severe symptoms or? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So, the person who presented as the first case did have a fever, a cough, and, you know, so quite noticeable symptoms. And the partner of that person also had obvious symptoms also, in fact, that preceded that of the case that we diagnosed first. Media: How long had they been experiencing those symptoms? Is there a risk that they'd been out and about and had spread it; they could have been the spreaders? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes, it was about a four to five-day period from the symptom onset to when the test was done. So again, that's one reason we are following up all possible close contacts. And in fact, what we have found so far is that there is a relatively small number of close contacts, both in the workplace and outside of the workplace. Media: [Indistinct] where are the workplaces? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: At this point, the only information I'd like to share is that they are from South Auckland, and that the workplaces are beyond South Auckland, so they're and other parts of Auckland… Because that's what the- request of the family at this point. PM Jacinda Ardern: So, we'll look to provide more information in the morning. It's just a matter of making sure that when we do so, we're not in a situation of identifying directly individuals, because there are a small number of people involved in some of those workplaces which would make them identifiable. Obviously, the fact we're taking this precautionary approach means that we are ensuring the health and safety of everyone in Auckland by taking this precautionary approach. Those who are directly involved with the workplaces of these individuals have already and are already being contacted directly to make sure that they have that extra requirement to be in self-isolation and to be tested. But again, we will look to provide more information in the morning - I know this will be an area of interest. Media: If you've been in Auckland the last few days and you've flown back to your home elsewhere in New Zealand, should you be working from home for the moment? PM Jacinda Ardern: Yeah. And so, this is where we are asking people to be- take a precautionary approach, we do want them to monitor their symptoms, we do want people to be cautious. And we are asking everyone outside of Auckland to socially distance, and so that is part of the requirements that we're asking of people. And people will engage their common sense in this as well. Yep? Media: You- obviously rest homes are where the most vulnerable are- PM Jacinda Ardern: [Interrupts] Yes, I'll ask Dr Bloomfield to speak to rest homes. Media: Are you looking at maybe locking down rest homes? That's where all the deaths kind of popped up in New Zealand, how are you going to protect the vulnerable? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yeah, so earlier in the year when the outbreak started to gather pace, before we even went into an Alert Level 3 or 4 situation, we had advised aged residential care facilities - and many of them had already - we had- we'd advised them to stop all visits. Our advice to aged residential care, countrywide at the moment, is to also stop visits for the time being, certainly over these next few days, because we want to take a very precautionary approach with that setting. Media: [Indistinct…] in aged residential care facilities? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not at this point, recalling that there is already a protocol in place where all those reporting for- who work in aged residential care do have symptom checks before they start work. And obviously, part of the shutting down visitors will be making sure that those facilities are enforcing that and making sure it's routinely done. Media: If that's the most vulnerable place, why wouldn't you be testing? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Because there's no indication yet that we should test there, the important first action is to close all visiting to those rest homes, and then we will take it from there. Again, this is this first few days, the actions we are taking immediately are in Auckland - as outlined by the Prime Minister - and anyone symptomatic, including those who work in or who stay in aged residential care facilities, should be tested. Media: [Indistinct] one of the things that happened during Level 2 and Level 3 last time was elderly were asked to stay home. Under Level 2 of the rest of New Zealand, are you asking- PM Jacinda Ardern: At the moment we are asking everyone outside of Auckland to apply the Level 2 restrictions, so that is as it stands and obviously in Auckland we're asking everyone to stay at home. Media: Two different Level 2's but over-70- PM Jacinda Ardern: [Interrupts] As we- you'll remember as we came down, at Level 2 we weren't asking at that point every single person to stay home. But again Level 2 - social distancing, good hand washing regimes, making sure you are not leaving your home if you are unwell, and we're asking if you're in public places that are- that it's a little harder to socially distance, for people to wear a mask. In Auckland, Level 3. Media: [Indistinct] the gentleman who tested positive for COVID-19 in South Korea recently, he also resided in South Auckland by memory. Are you concerned that these two situations could be linked? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: We're not. And we've been through a very thorough process with that person who was- who tested positive on arrival in South Korea and very much concluded that everything about that situation suggests that it was a positive test of someone who had had earlier infections some months before. PM Jacinda Ardern: Keeping in mind that there was also roughly 100 close contacts around that person all tested, all tested negative. And of course the evidence suggesting that, from the swab, that it was an old infection. Media: As the testing goes on, within how many days do you expect to see- could we, for example, see tomorrow some of those close, close contacts coming back and testing positive or negative? PM Jacinda Ardern: Yes. The turnaround can be, it can be very quick. Obviously we've already turned around from the time that there was a positive test in the family, we've already turned around testing in the wider family already to identify those other positives. So, we can turn it around very quickly. Down the back. Media: Do you have concerns for wider contact tracing? Given that there's been quite a slow uptake on using the app? PM Jacinda Ardern: I'll let Dr Bloomfield speak to that, but already we have good information that's already being actioned. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So, two comments there. First of all, the really significant information development over the last few months has been our, in our national contact tracing solution which all our public health units are on. And just to give you an example of the value of that - tonight, as the public health unit in Auckland was interviewing the person, and the information was being entered into the system there, we could view it nationally, and in fact then it's visible to us nationally and indeed to other public health units if they need it. So that's the that's the most significant and really valuable asset we have for our contact tracing, as well as the fact we have upped the capacity in our public health units across the country to be able to trace up to 350 cases per day - and we have additional capacity nationally. The app itself, even if- so I'm encouraging people to download it even if you don't use it, and I encourage people to use it just by registering and giving us your up to date contact information - that's significantly useful. So please, go ahead and do that if you haven't already. PM Jacinda Ardern: Dr Bloomfield, this is a very good reminder of why everyone needs to use the app. Please - COVID Tracer - the Ministry of Health have made that app available, download it, use it. We'll be asking businesses again to put in place those QR codes. This is a vital and useful tool for us. If you don't use a phone that has that technology, please keep a diary of all places you've been. Sam(*). Media: Has the app been used in this particular case though? Have you issued an exposure notification yet? Or are you planning to do so? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Not yet, no. And we're not planning to at the moment, it depends on the extent of whether we have to send a message out to- more widely but because we're taking quite significant action here in Auckland, and as the Prime Minister as outlined, then we don't need to send out the notifications. PM Jacinda Ardern: But also of course continuing to undertake all of that contact tracing around that family as we speak. Media: Would it be helpful for Aucklanders? Or indeed all New Zealanders who think back over the last two weeks that about who they came in contact with and where they were? PM Jacinda Ardern: Yes. Yes, absolutely. It's always the exercise we ask, that would be a useful exercise for anyone, particularly in Auckland, when you're at home over the next three days just sitting down, thinking about the places you've been over the last two weeks, reminding yourself and keeping a log. But just making sure that you're, again getting into that practice of doing that at all times. The app is there to make it easier for you but it is not the only way you can record your movements. Media: A lot of Aucklanders and New Zealanders will be having this sinking feeling in their stomach at the moment. What's your message to them? PM Jacinda Ardern: Yes. I absolutely understand, and that is a completely natural feeling. We've had 102 days, and it was very easy to feel perhaps like New Zealand was out of the woods. But of all the countries in the world we have gone the longest, no country has gone as far as we did without having resurgence. And so because we were the only ones, that meant that we always knew we had to plan, and we have planned, and now that moment has arrived where we need to utilise that plan. So my request is not to be dispirited or disheartened. Well, we've rolled out our plans before - it has worked. so I'm asking that everyone joins us on that journey again, reminds themselves of what we had to do last time, and just continues to stay with us as we keep sharing all the information we have as we try and get back control again of these cases that we've identified. Again, this is something we have prepared for. Media: [Indistinct] out of Auckland avoid inter regional travel. If they have flights already, say Dunedin to Christchurch, should they cancel them? PM Jacinda Ardern: So again, we're keeping the rest of the country at Level 2 at this stage and so, of course, that means- you'll recall at Level 2 we allowed inter regional travel. But we're asking no one to go into Auckland unless they're returning home, and only those who are leaving to go home to exit out of Auckland. If you're an Aucklander and you have a home elsewhere, please stay in Auckland - that is our request of you. We're asking people to apply the same common sense that we used before. When it comes to people who've been in Auckland, I'm going to get a bit more advice around that. At this stage we are saying, people go home, keep an eye on your wellness. But I will get a little bit more advice about what we do for those who have come out of Auckland, just to make sure we are consistent. But you can go home if you're in Auckland and that's not where you live. Media: For people who have been in Auckland recently, they don't have to [indistinct]? PM Jacinda Ardern: Sorry? Media: So people who have been in Auckland recently, for now they don't [indistinct]…? PM Jacinda Ardern: [Talks over] I will get some further advice on that. At this stage though we're saying, do go home if you're in Auckland, do go home, use your common sense. Keep in mind we have just put that region into a Level 3 restricted area. Make sure that you are keeping an eye on your health and wellbeing. I'll give another update on our expectations on that group tomorrow. What I'll also do because we've also, as discussed rest homes, I will be asking Minister Jenny Salesa to engage with those facilities again as we have in the past - make sure that we are taking a precautionary approach there. Those are some of our highest risk areas. Minister- Dr Bloomfield's already set out our expectations there, but I want to make sure it's as rigorous as possible because it is an area where we know there is huge vulnerability. Media: [Indistinct] if your family is self-isolating it at home? And if so, if you've considered moving them to a quarantine facility? PM Jacinda Ardern: Yes. We are discussing with them a possible move to, to a quarantine facility. Media: Separated from the [indistinct]? PM Jacinda Ardern: [Talks over] Yes. Now they are, they are as a family, they are as a family - they've only just received their results and we're discussing with them movement into quarantine. Media: [Inaudible question]. PM Jacinda Ardern: At the moment public health staff are with them. Media: People are already streaming into supermarkets in Auckland after this announcement. Are you worried about that? PM Jacinda Ardern: Again, I can only reiterate what I said in the beginning. I absolutely understand it's a completely natural reaction, it happens around public holidays as well when people know that there are closures - but there are no closures here. We've all experienced before that the supermarkets will not shut, they will remain open, people will continue to be able to access them. So there is no need for anyone to go out now and stock up - they'll be open tomorrow, they'll be open the next day, they'll be open right the way through. Media: We're getting calls that it's already happening. [Indistinct]. PM Jacinda Ardern: Look I know - that's just been shared with me. And again, I can only reiterate as I have - there is no need. They are an essential service, so are pharmacies - diaries will remain open as well. It's just as people will recall when we were in Level 3 last time - you'll even be able to get a takeaway coffee with distance. So all of those things remain in place. Media: [Indistinct] sold out Blues v Crusaders match planned for Saturday at Eden Park. What's the message to people [indistinct]? PM Jacinda Ardern: I expect that our Minister for Sport will engage with them directly. At the moment though we're keeping these restrictions till midnight Friday. I understand that that creates uncertainty for some of those major fixtures, so we'll be in dialogue with them. But at the moment we're keeping it at midnight Friday, with updates as we go. Media: [Indistinct] explain what happens after mid- sorry, I know it's hard to predict the future, but if you manage to determine there's no community transmission, find the source of this, will we move straight down- back down into Level 1? Or will you bring down the Levels as you did? PM Jacinda Ardern: Yeah, we've always tended to take a precautionary approach, we'll make that assessment at the time. But I imagine that we will be on guard having found these cases in our community at this point. You won't have to necessarily wait till Friday to get a sense of the progress we're making, or not. We will continue to give updates and I expect that we're looking at another press conference at this point mid-morning tomorrow. We will be making sure that Commissioner Andrew Coster is available to give further information around some of the ways that the roadblocks and checks will be operating. And of course, we'll be making sure that there's information available for morning media as well. Media: [Indistinct] any events in Auckland this weekend? PM Jacinda Ardern: Look, that- I haven't ruled that out. But again, we do need to take a cautious approach as we have with this decision today. Media: During Victoria's second wave they- a lot of people there became really frustrated having to go through this process again - we saw hundreds of people getting fines for example. Are you concerned that New Zealanders, particularly Aucklanders, will either become complacent? Or just frustrated and break the rules? PM Jacinda Ardern: Do you know, I've, I've always of course known that we are our own people, our own country, we've taken our own approach to COVID, so I'm not going to make an assumption about what will happen to here in New Zealand based on what's happened in Australia because we've always done things our own way. We know that by following the guidelines that we've set and the Alert Levels that we put in place originally, that it worked. No country in the world was free of community transmission as long as New Zealand has been. Now, we also know that other countries have had resurgence and have got them back under control, so we're asking for every New Zealanders help in doing that. If we get this right we can limit the effect on the rest of New Zealand, but we'll only be able to do that if we do follow these rules as we did in the first place. Media: How strictly, how strictly will these rules be enforced? PM Jacinda Ardern: In the same way that we have before. So, nothing has changed in that regard - the orders will be in place, we are asking people to comply with them and we're doing that for a 72-hour period. Media: [Indistinct] incubation period, and previously testing didn't really come through- like cases didn't really come through in testing for like 10 days. Is it likely that we will need to be Level 3- Auckland will need to be at Level 3 for at least two weeks? Is that- can people- should people expect that? PM Jacinda Ardern: Again as I've said, we'll make sure that everyone's well aware of the decisions that need to be made once we have more information. But it is a very big decision to shut down an entire city for a two-week period without having full information around the source of this case. And so, I feel very strongly that we need to give ourselves the ability to answer those questions before we ask that of all of Auckland. I believe we should have much more information over the next 72 hours, we're going to undertake widespread mass testing, continue the interviews across the range of those individuals affected and see if we can identify those sources which may then limit our need to continue with these restrictions for long periods of time. Media: [Indistinct] scenario, very widespread testing and no, no positive results at all. Given the incubation period, surely a precautionary approach would require Level 3 to be longer? PM Jacinda Ardern: Of course. Rather than working through hypotheticals I'd much rather work through the evidence that we have, and we're likely to be able to gather much, much more information over the next 24, 48, 36 hours. Media: Prime Minister, lots of people, including the Leader of the National Party, have said that there's a conspiracy theory going on and that with all this talk about Alert Level 2 coming in that the government knew more than it sharing. Was that what's happened here? Can you put to bed any of those rumours? PM Jacinda Ardern: I've already shared with you the timeline of when I was first informed, I'll let Dr Bloomfield speak to his own knowledge. I was informed of this case after exiting a gathering, a public gathering in Wanganui which would have roughly being 4pm today. I drove directly to Wellington. Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: Yes. So I was informed via text, an urgent text from the Chief Executive of Counties Manukau DHB in Auckland just before 3:00, and we were on a Zoom call with a number of people within about five minutes, and standing up the response very quickly and letting people know exactly what was happening. But that's the first indication we had that a test result came through with the- a test that was done of a symptomatic person yesterday in general practice, and it just reiterates why we were doing that testing and that we had a plan really to spring into action as soon as we got a result [indistinct]. Media: [Indistinct] Judith calls today. And have you got- PM Jacinda Ardern: Sorry. Media: Have you talked to Judith Collins today? PM Jacinda Ardern: Yes. Media: And are you getting any advice on postponing the election? PM Jacinda Ardern: So, I spoke to the Leader of the Opposition I'd say approximately, approximately 8:30 this evening to advise her, that was immediately after I came off the call advising and discussing with Ministers our course of action. I then immediately spoke to the Mayor of Auckland and to the Leader of the Opposition. I advised her of the information we had about the case, the proposed course of action and response and what we would be undertaking in the next period of time as well to ascertain further information. As for your second, the second question around impact on the election - at this point my absolute focus is our immediate response to these cases. I have not given any consideration to any impact on the election at this stage - that's likely something that, if needs be, we would report on further down the track. but certainly not at this stage. Media: Do you expect all political parties to put campaigning on hold though? PM Jacinda Ardern: Well, ultimately I'm expecting them to do the same thing we're asking of every New Zealander at this time for the next period until midnight on Friday. If they are resident in Auckland to stay home, obviously to comply with Level 2 restrictions for the rest of the country - I absolutely understand the impact that will have. I too obviously will be changing plan, and over the next three days expect that everything I had planned will be will be put to the wayside. Media: Isn't it a realistic prospect that we could see the election delayed? PM Jacinda Ardern: That's not- I don't want to speculate on that at this point. Obviously the Electoral Commission have always undertaken planning to allow an election at Alert Level 2. But again, anything beyond that right now for something that's six weeks away I would be purely speculative. Media: Tomorrow, parliament's dissolving tomorrow... PM Jacinda Ardern: [Interrupts] I'll take the last, last few questions? Media: Is it appropriate to dissolve parliament tomorrow? Which essentially leaves New Zealand with no democratic accountability for the government, as we going into what could be an extended State of Emergency? PM Jacinda Ardern: So, keeping in mind of course - but that does still, that does not diminish or remove the ability of Cabinet to continue to make decisions - I intend to act in the exact same way I would if we were in a parliamentary recess for instance. I will continue to maintain contact with the Leader of the Opposition - I've already indicated to her that I will do that, I intend to give her another update tomorrow once we have further information and further details of the work that we'll be doing over the next three days. So in that sense, the dissolution of parliament will actually not change the way I intend to behave with the Leader of the Opposition. Okay. Thank you everyone. We'll see you in the morning. Last modified: 17 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Watch the COVID-19 media conference held by government officials and ministers at 4pm. Speakers: Transcript of the 4pm media conference The COVID-19 media conference was held at 10:30am. Speakers: Transcript of the 10:30am media conference Last modified: 16 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Kia ora koutou katoa and good morning. There are a range of things that Dr Bloomfield and I wish to run through this morning to ensure that everyone has access to the most up-to-date information as we, together as a team, work to stamp out COVID-19. We are taking a rapid response to break the chain of transmission, through contact tracing, testing, and the gathering of information. In that regard, I’m going to begin by handing over, as I did last night, to Dr Bloomfield for an additional update on the cases that we are dealing with. I’ll then come back and expand on some of those issues and questions that came up overnight, just to make sure that we’re reminding people of the expectations of those in Auckland and everyone across the rest of the country. Then we’ll be happy to take questions, and I’ll also outline updates that will be happening over the course of the day. Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. I just want to give you an update on the public health response that has rapidly scaled up since we found out about these cases in the community yesterday afternoon. The family are still in isolation at home, and we are working with them about whether some or all of that family might go into one of our quarantine facilities, a quarantine facility in Auckland. That’s an active conversation. Meantime, they are in strict self-isolation. Now, following further interviews by the public health unit with the people who have tested positive, that has revealed that one of the cases, a woman in her 20s, travelled to Rotorua on Saturday while she was symptomatic. So there’s actually a family of four that travelled to Rotorua. We are working with urgency to find out what places the family may have visited while in Rotorua over the weekend, but the important thing is here people in Rotorua, and indeed around the country, should be vigilant about their health and seek advice if they have any symptoms. We know Rotorua is a popular tourist destination. We expect that people will have been there from around the motu, and we fully expected, because we were in alert level 1, with freedom of movement and people moving around the country, that should we get a case it would, in fact, require a nationwide response. What I can say is in Rotorua there are currently testing sites available and also in Taupō. So in Rotorua at the moment it is in Vaughan Road and there will be a pop-up testing centre in addition opening tomorrow, and that site will be announced for locals. But, again, it’s not just for locals in Rotorua but anyone who may have visited Rotorua over the weekend. A reminder once again: this virus does not discriminate. There is no shame or stigma in having contracted it. We want to find the virus, and we will, as we are with this family, support anyone who has it to ensure that their health and wellbeing are looked after and that we stop it spreading further in the community. This is a New Zealand family that is cooperating fully and who deserve to have their privacy respected. None of the people who have tested positive there, or indeed any of our other current cases in managed isolation or quarantine, requires hospital-level care presently. So plans are in place to protect our communities and, if we all do our bit, we will get through this. I know that the virus re-emerging in our community has caused alarm, and the unknown is scary. It causes anxiety for many of us. We have been here before. We can get through it if we work together. We are working hard to put together the pieces of the puzzle about how this family became infected, and work is progressing apace to look up the movements, follow the movements of those people who have tested positive, and to contact trace anyone who may have had, or been in, contact with them. We are testing all close and casual contacts of the people who have tested positive for COVID-19. None of the workplaces where there is a risk are public-facing ones, and all appropriate health actions are being taken. Just an update on those workplaces, all the staff in the first case’s workplace are considered close contacts, and that’s a total of 130 people. The person only has close contact in a small team, but we are treating everybody in the workplace, which has now been shut down. It’s a finance company. It has been shut down, and all are being followed up and tested. That follow-up will happen from our national contact tracing centre here in Wellington. There are three of the husband’s, or the partner’s, colleagues who are symptomatic and being tested, isolated, and their households are in isolation as well. That workplace is in four sites across Auckland, with a total of around 160 staff. They are all shut down now, and there is both testing of all those who work there, and also of the environment in that workplace. We want to see if possibly the environment is implicated here. I should add that we are also doing genome sequencing on all those who have tested positive, and our recent cases and current cases in managed isolation and quarantine, so that will help us track where this virus may have arisen from and then got out into the community. So our national contact tracing centre has 140 people on standby to support Auckland Regional Public Health, and Healthline has been very busy, as we anticipated, with very high volumes of calls. They have an extra 60 staff on already and will be increasing that. Please, if you want general information, go to the website and leave Healthline to be able to provide advice to people with symptoms who may need testing. We’re prepared to test tens of thousands of people in coming days so we can see if there are any more cases of COVID-19 in our community. Staff from the district health boards in Auckland are being redeployed to testing centres, both in the community and to do testing in our managed isolation and quarantine and at the border. We have stocks of more than 270,000 tests available across the country, with more stock coming in at all times, and at the moment we can process more than 12,000 tests per day and are looking to increase that over the next few days. So the best thing we can all do now is to face this together, to be aware of and get back very strongly in the habit of complying with those key public health measures around hand hygiene, physical distancing, and we are also recommending the use of masks, particularly in the Auckland region. The Prime Minister will talk more about that shortly. Finally, we’ve heard a little bit of confusion about what is considered an essential worker. Again, the Prime Minister will speak to that. If you are in Auckland and have questions about that, please do talk to your employer to clarify whether or not you are an essential worker. So we have seen in other countries and jurisdictions like in Victoria, in Hong Kong, and in Vietnam, where a resurgence occurs, that it is incredibly important to act early. The alert level that we are implementing here in New Zealand was not implemented in Victoria till some weeks after their first cases reappeared in the community. That is why we are responding strongly and quickly again. We have the systems in place to help stamp out the virus and stop it spreading. And, once again, we have done this before, and we can do it again. Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. As you will hear from Dr Bloomfield, the fact that we have some contact with the family that have been identified as having COVID having travelled to another region reinforces why the whole country has moved to alert level 2. And that is that, of course, everyone across the country outside of Auckland, we’re asking for social distancing, we’re asking for those limits on mass gatherings again, and we’re asking everyone to keep track of where they have been. Some may ask why it is that we only have Auckland at level 3. Obviously, that is currently the source and the centre, as it were, of this particular outbreak. And so, at the moment, those who are we are investigating in Rotorua, primarily we are looking at potentially casual contacts, whereas obviously in Auckland we are looking for the source of the infection at this point in time. As Dr Bloomfield has said, testing will play a very important role over the next three days as we gather further information. As I said last night, and I have extra information on testing stations in Auckland, they are available at Northcote, Eden Terrace, Henderson, New Lynn, Wiri, and Ōtara. And they will operate from 8 or 9 a.m., depending on the site, until 5 or 6 p.m., seven days a week. We ask that you check the Auckland Regional Public Health Service’s or DHB website for local details. However, I do have a special request. In order for us to trace where this outbreak stems from, it is really important that we increase the number of people being tested, but that does not mean we just want to randomly test across Auckland people who have no symptoms. In fact, that runs the risk of creating longer queues, more tests to process, without us being able to hone in on those we need to test the most. So what we’re asking is that, if you have any symptoms or if a medical professional or Healthline recommend you are tested, then, please, get tested. If you have no symptoms and if you don’t work in MIQ and you don’t work at the border and you have no connection to any of those places, and you are perfectly healthy and well, then, please, just comply with the requirements around level 2 restrictions in Auckland. We do have the ability to scale up our testing over the next few days and bring on additional testing lab capacity. We also have the ability to bring in pooling of testing, which means we can scale up—and that is what we are working to do. I want to come back to the issue of aged care. We all know that people in our aged-care facilities are some of our most vulnerable, and so we must take those extra precautions to look after them. For this reason, all aged-care facilities throughout New Zealand will close their doors to everyone but staff and essential deliveries from noon today. This is something that the sector themselves has felt very strongly about. We’re working with the sector, also, to help ensure that staff don’t work across multiple sites and across multiple facilities—that’s another lesson that’s been learned from overseas, and we’re working with the sector, as we speak, on limiting working across sites. I realise how incredibly difficult this will be for those who have loved ones living in these facilities, but it’s the strongest way that we can protect and look after them. Our own experience, and that from overseas, teaches us that this is the safest approach, particularly at this stage, where we still have limited information. I want to come to alert levels and some reminders around what the alert levels mean, particularly for Auckland. Now, you can find all the details of the requirements—a refresher, as it were—around alert level 2 for the rest of New Zealand and alert level 3 for Auckland on the COVID website, at covid19.govt.nz. It has information in a range of languages. But, just to reiterate here for you today, for Auckland, who are at level 3: under alert level 3, you should continue to stay or re-form your household bubbles whenever you are not at work or in school. Only the children of essential workers or those who fall into the category of being able to be in a workplace should be in education facilities, and many people will remember the guidelines we used at level 3 last time in that regard. We’re asking that you don’t invite over, or allow over, social visitors such as friends, family, and whānau to enter into your home. When you’re out, we ask that you maintain physical distancing of two metres outside your home, including on public transport, when buying groceries, or when exercising. A reminder on workplaces—because level 3, of course, was different to level 4—workplaces should only open if workers cannot work from home; if workplaces are operating safely, so that’s fulfilling all of the standards and expectations around social distancing; and if customers are not allowed on the premises. So businesses can trade without physical contact with customers; you’ll remember that, at level 3, that can happen through phone or online orders, delivery, pick up, drive through, click and collect. So you’ll remember that was a major difference between alert level 3 and alert level 4. Supermarkets, dairies, petrol stations, of course, can have customers on their premises. Retail is possible through delivery and non-contact collection, including of prepared food. Public venues should close; this includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, and markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for wedding services, funerals, and tangihanga. And you’ll remember you can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area—for instance, go for a walk, a run, a swim at the beach, or you can fish from a wharf. Again, this is just a refresher; all of the same obligations and rules of level 3 that we’ve all experienced before apply once again. And for level 2—for level 2, which is the rest of New Zealand—we’re asking for social distancing; we’re asking to limit large gatherings to no more than 100; we’re asking that you maintain the practice of handwashing, staying home if you’re sick, and making sure you’re keeping track of where you’ve been. Keep an eye on those websites, as they’ll give you official information; help make sure that you’re doing the right thing with your family, with your friends, and supporting fellow New Zealanders. Now, I know we came up against the issue yesterday of people who have been in Auckland in recent days, and you’ll be wanting more information about how you should behave. The ongoing advice from Dr Bloomfield and the Health team is that you should remain vigilant for any symptoms. There is no requirement at this stage for you to self-isolate, but as we learn more about the cases we have, we will keep reviewing that advice. But, again, if you are sick, you should be at home regardless, and that continues to be the advice for everyone across the country. Latest numbers show Healthline has received over 2,000 calls since late yesterday. We are responding to them. We are boosting staff numbers. I understand that many people will have questions around alert levels, travel, and a range of other issues thrown up by what we’re asking people. If you have general questions, please visit the COVID-19 website rather than call Healthline. It means that we can make sure that people who need immediate health advice can access it. I want to come to the issue of face coverings, just to share again our request of everyone around their use. You’ll recall we recently asked people to prepare for any possible resurgence by having a face mask or a face covering on hand. If you are in Auckland, please cover your face if you leave your home to access those services that are operating at level 3. A mask or any face coverings such as a scarf or a bandanna covering your nose and mouth will suffice. Now, while we are not mandating their general use at this stage, we are strongly encouraging their use in the Auckland region. For the rest of New Zealand, if you are in an environment where social distancing is an issue—say, for instance, public transport—we are also encouraging their use. In terms of the supply of masks, Countdown and Foodstuffs have supply. We are also releasing 5 million masks from our central supply to support distribution into the areas they’re needed. We’re also looking at provision of masks in, for instance, food parcels and via social services for those who may be more vulnerable and less able to access masks. I again remind people, though: you can fashion your own face covering if needed. So, if in your area you find your supermarket does not have them available, I encourage you to fashion your own face covering. We have mandated mask use in one environment at present; that is for flights leaving Auckland. Air New Zealand will be providing these on departure, remembering that you are able to depart Auckland if you are going to your place of residence if you are not an Aucklander and you live outside of Auckland. So there will still be a bit of movement while people get back to their place of residence. I want to come now—and I will finish very shortly. I want to come now to the matter of Parliament. A number of questions have been raised around the issue of the dissolution of Parliament. Now, while our primary focus, of course, is on the response in these immediate stages over the next few days, we do need to ensure that we’re giving ourselves as much flexibility as possible to deal with what we learn over the next 72 hours. Parliament was due to dissolve today at 11 a.m. Now, essentially, that doesn’t stop the Government from being able to make decisions. Cabinet continues to have a mandate to make the decisions that we’ve been talking about over these past 24 hours. But the Parliament dissolving does mean that, if we needed to convene Parliament for any reason, we wouldn’t be able to do so. We’ve, therefore, decided it would be prudent to defer the dissolution of Parliament by at least a few days to preserve all options for, if needed, reconvening Parliament or, if needed, for the purposes of the date of the general election. So that will be extended until Monday. We’re seeking advice, around the options of the issue of the election, from the Electoral Commission, just so that we make sure we have all those options available to us. No decisions yet, as you can imagine, have been made. We are still in the very early stages of dealing with the new cases in the community; so we’ve got some time to work through that. Finally, I know it’s important to keep you updated, and we will continue to be communicating with you throughout the day. The director-general and I will hold a further press conference at 4 p.m. today to share information that has come to light during the day; not necessarily an expectation that there will be large amounts of new information, but we’ll be creating that opportunity to check in and share what we know. Separately but very importantly, Police Commissioner Andy Coster immediately after this press conference will take to the podium. He’ll talk through the police’s actions, expectation, and their approach to enforcement of level 3 in Auckland and also, importantly, how we anticipate the boundaries working in Auckland. So, to finish, a quick recap: for Auckland, the rules are the same as we have all experienced before. Jump online if you have any questions, but remember that the general rule of thumb is that if you worked at home at level 3 before, that is what we are asking of you again. For the rest of the country, we are bringing back social distancing and those limits on large gatherings. For everyone, though: wash your hands, stay at home if you’re sick, get a test if you’re symptomatic. I know how hugely frustrating this current situation is for every single member of our team of 5 million, but if we get our immediate response right in this critical phase, we have the opportunity to lessen the time that we will have those heavier restrictions. And that is a lesson that we have all learnt together. Please, as always, stay kind, look after one another, and please stay tuned as we update you on the situation as it continues to unfold. Media : How many positive tests have been returned, because we’re hearing it’s as many as 10 to date? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We’ve been informed, and the tests that we have back are the ones we reported last night, that is four members of the original family. A number of other people have been tested. We don’t have any further results to report at this point. Media : And are you able, Dr Bloomfield, to run us through a detailed time line of when you found out about that first positive test, when that trip to Rotorua took place, and can you give us an assurance that, between finding out about that first positive test, there was no travel that took place or potential community transmission that took place? I’m wondering why it took so long for us to find out. PM : To find out what, sorry, Tova? Media : About the community transmission back in New Zealand in general. PM : From the space of 2.30 till being notified last night? Media : From when the first positive test was and then whether there was any—whether you can rule out any travel or possible community transmission or transmission of any sort between that first positive test and when you told us last night. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So I think there are a couple of questions in there. The first bit is once we found out about the positive test—and, indeed, the district health board and public health unit did mid-afternoon yesterday, around 2.30—both the case and all members of the original case’s family were contacted and self-isolated and isolated at home. They were then all tested late yesterday afternoon, and we had those results back from the initial rapid test last evening, and that was reported in last evening’s media conference. The trip to Rotorua took place last weekend, and so the person in their 20s and the family—and the person in their 20s has tested positive; that was one of the results we got last night. And one of the two pre-schoolers in that family had also tested positive; again, a result we received last night. They had made the trip to Rotorua over the weekend. That information was elicited late last evening, and then with a follow up this morning by the public health unit to get more information. And the first bit of information that was made available to us was that it was not just a trip to visit another family and sort of a small potential group of contacts but they had visited a number of tourist venues there. We are getting further information about that, and we’ll release that as soon as we have it. Media : Didn’t you say last night that the first positive test was the day before yesterday? PM : That’s when they were tested— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That’s when they were tested. PM : —and then the results came through yesterday. So that’s, as you’ll remember, we have that cycle of testing and then the results coming through. I think the important thing to remember, as well, is that we last night were providing—we had an original test that then alerted us to test the entire family. Those results came through late last night; that was immediately communicated here. That then triggers, of course, a range of interviews. Those interviews then bring in that extra information about Rotorua, and that’s what we’re communicating this morning. So a lot of interviews, questioning, and contact tracing all happening simultaneously, and we’re providing that information at the next available opportunity. Media : Why not lockdown in more detail, though? Why not go to alert level 3? PM : Yeah, just to answer the question, I tried to cover that off in my original introduction—the question of “Why not lock down Rotorua?” Of course, keep in mind the difference here, as we’ve described, is that everything at this stage still points to the source of this infection at this point being within Auckland. We have multiple individuals at multiple work sites with close contacts within Auckland. What we have now is travel into another region where there’s potentially close or casual contacts, but because we have, really, the source of the infection still in that primary place, that’s why they’re at level 3 and the rest of the country at level 2. But, of course, that contact tracing is under way. Those who are picked up in that perimeter will be requested to isolate and be tested. Media : [Inaudible] err on the side of a few more details on that? PM : Erring on the side of caution is moving the entire country to level 2 and an entire city to level 3 in less than 12 hours after being informed of a case. Media : Prime Minister, just a few more details on that time line. When was Dr Bloomfield first alerted, and when were you first alerted, and then what happened between 4 o’clock and 9? PM : So we covered this off last evening, but I am happy to canvass this time line again. The one thing before I start—by Dr Bloomfield beginning, because he, obviously, knew before I was then informed—the one thing I will say is that I have heard suggestion—I’ve heard suggestion that we may have had this information earlier than we have said. There is no reason why we would ever do that, and I hope that you’ll hear from the time line we set out that we have then moved very, very, quickly, including informing the public. I do worry that those kinds of theories do nothing to support what needs to be collective action from all of us. But, Dr Bloomfield, I’ll start with you. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thanks, Prime Minister. I’ll start off and then hand to you. Just to confirm, I received a text from the chief executive of Counties Manukau District Health Board—that’s Margie Apa. She’s the lead CE for the Auckland region on the COVID-19 response. She texted me at about 2.40 yesterday afternoon. I rang her at 2.45, and we then had a Zoom discussion about seven minutes later with the teams, to get an initial rundown of what was happening and organise for a further update once the initial case had been interviewed. The Prime Minister can talk a little bit about when she became informed, but what I would say here is we needed to have a certain amount of information to be able to inform what are already quite significant decisions around moving Auckland to an alert level 3 stance and, indeed, the rest of the country to alert level 2. So all that work was happening, and a lot of information was gathered, not just from the interviews but, of course, from the testing of the family, that helped inform those significant decisions. PM : So just to cover my time line, I went into a public event about 3.15 in Whanganui. I exited that around 4 o’clock. As soon as I was in the privacy of the van, I was informed of the case, immediately spoke to my chief of staff and the Minister of Health. At that stage, I saw a sitrep that had been produced about that same time. It suggested that additional swabbing was being taken to confirm that it wasn’t a false positive, which, of course, we’ve had in the past. We wanted to be certain. Testing was then being undertaken, I understand, of the wider family members, and Health were giving a briefing to those involved at 5.30. I, of course, was on the road in that time; posed a number of questions I wanted answered before we convened to make decisions, including: can we isolate the potential source; is there any connection to border staff or MIQ? If we couldn’t answer those questions, then that was an indication we needed to move to a more precautionary approach. I arrived at Parliament close to 7, or just thereafter. I sat down with the Minister of Health straight away. By 7.30, we had all AOG officials and Health officials in the office. Immediately after that, I convened Ministers with power to act; briefed them on what we’d been informed; made decisions; called the Leader of the Opposition; obviously, gave her quite a fulsome briefing, because I see it’s been shared with the media thereafter; gave a briefing to Mayor Phil Goff; and then came down and briefed the media. Media : In terms of getting your head around this, do the public need to start preparing to go back to level 4, or is there a possibility that this will just be a couple of days? It’s seeming increasingly unlikely. PM : Well, of course, that all depends on what testing tells us—what that genome sequencing tells us as well. As Dr Bloomfield has touched on, that can potentially provide us information as to whether or not the cases are connected to a particular MIQ or existing COVID case. So that, basically, can tell us about different strains of COVID. There are a range of different strains, some more common than others. So it may help us narrow down information; it may not. And, as Dr Bloomfield has also said, we have a coolstore workplace where we are testing surfaces, because we know that, although we primarily look for human to human transmission, we do need to check whether or not we can rule out whether or not there’s been something to do with freight or so on that has played a role here as well. Media : Why aren’t you releasing details of the locations involved and other places such as supermarkets, malls, where the individuals may have been? PM : I’ll leave that to Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So the workplaces—one workplace I don’t have the location of; that’s the workplace of the original case. The other workplace, which was the second case, that is four locations across Auckland. The place where this person works is in Mount Wellington, but there are four locations. They’ve all been closed down, and all the workers there will be followed up and tested. There is nothing else to suggest there are other—if there were other locations in the Auckland region that would be elicited that they may have visited, we would make those public as well. PM : Yep. Media : Dr Bloomfield, what are the best-case and worst-case scenarios that you’re working to? PM : Well, the best-case scenario, of course, is if we are able to identify the source of the infection, that gives us a greater ability to be able to ensure that we have adequately contact traced and isolated individuals. And you’ll hear us continue to give you updates as to whether or not we’re getting closer to that information. If we’re unable to identify the source and we continue to see positives that, perhaps, are difficult to link, then that does make it more difficult, but you won’t have to wait till Friday; you’ll hear us as we give continual updates around some of the information that we’re able to uncover. Media : Could COVID have spread in that 6½ hours, Dr Bloomfield, between you finding out and you making it public? PM : Keeping in mind, as soon as the person tested positive at 2.30, they went into isolation. So the idea that something only happens once we inform the public is incorrect. As soon as a result is received, that person goes into isolation, everyone around them goes into isolation, contact tracing starts straight away. The gears do not start moving once we tell the public; that happens well before. Media : Are you considering any changes to the inflow of international passengers to New Zealand at the moment? PM : We had that discussion with the all-of-Government group this morning. We, of course, do continue to have arriving New Zealanders. They are all operating in a level 4 environment; so we treat those arrivals very, very cautiously. So there’s no reason why we cannot continue to do that. They will be moving into a level 3 environment, but they will be in level 4. And so, while we had that discussion, there’s no reason, given the precautions and everything we have in place, why we cannot continue to maintain and manage that. What we are doing at the moment, though, is working through a system of testing everyone working at our MIQs, whether they are on shift or off shift, to make sure that we have covered off those high-risk areas. Media : How many tests in total is that? PM : So across—I understand if you’re including border staff, those who are working in MIQ facilities, in Auckland and outside of Auckland, keeping in mind we are going to really put quite a lot of emphasis on Auckland, my recollection is it’s around the 6,000 to 7,000 individuals. Media : Dr Bloomfield, given that these four people haven’t travelled overseas recently, there are no known links to people working at the border or working in quarantine or managed isolation facilities, are you preparing for the possibility that we may never determine the source of the infection? Dr Ashley Bloomfield: So two things there. The genome sequencing will be very helpful in this regard. What we are confident is that we didn’t have any community transmission for quite a long period. And I should say that, also, even if you look at our influenza-like illness surveillance, even over the last week or two, there has been no upswing at all. The second thing is we’re not ruling anything in or out at this point. We are very open-minded. The Prime Minister mentioned that we’re doing some environmental testing in the workplace, which is a coolstore. We do know from studies overseas that, actually, the virus can survive in refrigerated environments for quite some periods of time. So, as we have done with those cases that have appeared when New Zealanders recently have travelled to other countries and tested positive—the South Korean case being the first one of those and the most widely publicised—we start by looking at all options and then ruling them out, and that’s the position we’re in at the moment. We have ruled out a false positive. Media : Just to be clear that that coolstore—you have incoming freight from overseas that’s being cooled the whole way through and it arrives in Auckland in a cold condition? PM : Yes. Media : So are you implying— Dr Ashley Bloomfield: We’re not sure about that yet, but— Media : Right. But you’re implying it’s possible that the virus could be on a surface— PM : We’re not ruling it out; so that’s why we’re including testing that includes looking into that possibility. We haven’t ruled it out at this stage. Media : If level 3 is extended beyond midnight Friday, what sort of notice will you be able to give to Aucklanders—like, midday Friday or this Thursday? PM : Yeah, I would like to give notice. Of course, then we’d be looking at an extension of an existing situation, but I do like to give notice if we can do that. Certainly, of course, making public announcements at midnight, of course, is not what we intend. So we’ve put it in till midnight. We’d look to give people advance notice. I don’t want to put a time on that right now, because I want to make sure, whatever decision we make, it’s informed by the most up-to-date information we have, and, obviously, we’ll be working intensively to gather that. Media : Can you just clarify something on testing: if someone has symptoms, can they just go to a drop— PM : Go to a CBAC? Yes. Media : Without having to call Healthline or go to a doctor? PM : Correct. Yes, they can. Yes, they can. They can do that. We’re asking: if you’re symptomatic, you can go to a drive-through. We’re just asking people: if you’re well, you do not need to go and get a test. We’re asking people who are symptomatic or who might have been told from Healthline, because they’re on the phone to Healthline, or they might have been at their GP and their GP has advised them to. Media : One of the problems in Melbourne seems to be that Australians weren’t used to wearing masks and it took a while for that to catch on, which led to the disease spreading. Are you worried that that’s going to happen in Auckland? PM : Well, of course, we haven’t had widespread mask use in New Zealand generally or, indeed, previously at other levels. We are encouraging their use, but one of the reasons we haven’t mandated it is because we have thought carefully about whether or not people have accessed them, whether or not they have listened to that advice and have them on hand. We are really encouraging quite liberal interpretations of face coverings, because it’s better than nothing. But yes, this will be new for New Zealanders, but we are asking them to make an effort on behalf of others. You know, I think it’s just a statement that you care about your community that you’re going out and you’re wearing a face mask to look after other people, and if both people who may interact with each other are doing that, it lessens the chance of an infection. Media : Will Aucklanders receive targeted economic support? PM : Yes. So if, up until—we’re, of course, leaving this period, and if we are in the position of making decisions that may lead to further extensions, then we will be looking to do that at that point. The Minister of Finance has already been engaged on that and is at the ready if that’s required. Media : What’s your response to iwi who want to reinstate checkpoints? PM : Yes, so I’ve just been on the phone to Minister Kelvin Davis, who has been working with Te Arawhiti to make sure that we’re in close contact with iwi and bringing in the police—so, Stuart Nash. I’m expecting them to convene a call and have a discussion sometime today. What we’re doing is putting in these roadblocks so that it’s not necessary elsewhere, but I do understand we need to give people the assurance, and particularly iwi the assurance, that we’re doing it well and that we are looking after those who are in areas outside of Auckland. Media : GPs in Auckland are concerned that they’re going to run out of swabs. Is the ministry doing anything around that? Is there enough PPE and swabs in the testing centres? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, there is a good supply, and one of the conversations we even had last night—I know the DHBs, actually, their incident management team, last night was planning to push out additional PPE and swabs to all general practices and primary care across the Auckland region to avoid any temporary distribution shortages. Media : We’ve been told that the GPs are limited to 20 swabs, in some cases. But 20 swabs per order—that suggests that the supply chain isn’t as good as you say. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I don’t think it does suggest that. It just is pre-empting a whole lot of swabs going to a few places to make sure that there is good distribution right across Auckland, and not forgetting that, as the Prime Minister has pointed out, there are four dedicated community-based testing centres, plus the two additional popups as well. And urgent care—there are a number of urgent care clinics, and general practices. So we’re very confident that there will be enough supplies of PPE and also swabs across the Auckland region. PM : That was a question asked today, and because of those distribution points being from within Auckland, that eases those issues. But, again, another reminder that testing stations are at Northcote, Eden Terrace, Henderson, New Lynn, Wiri, and Ōtara, and that, of course, testing there is free. If you go to your GP for a test, it is also free. So people need to keep that in mind. It is more efficient, however, if you use the testing stations that are available to you, and many of them operate as drive-thrus, which is a nice, safe way to do it. Media : What’s the time line on getting the results on that genome sequencing? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, the swabs have to get to ESR and then be processed, but they can turn them around quite quickly. We’re wanting to have those results to help inform a decision on Friday. So that will be a key part of our decision making. PM : Keeping in mind we’ll be doing that for those positives but also those who have recently been confirmed as cases within MIQ. Media : How many confirmed cases, Dr Bloomfield, could be isolated in MIQ facilities? Have any close contacts or anything been put into facilities thus far? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not at this point, but that is available there, and in fact we’ve talked this morning with Air Commodore Webb about ensuring there is capacity in the quarantine facility, which is where we would want cases and close contacts to go, and they have ensured that there is capacity there if needed. Media : Prime Minister, in terms of tangihanga restrictions, when it comes to police entering marae without a warrant, what does that mean? PM : Of course, at the moment, we’re asking that for the next three days we have those limits on numbers. My hope, of course, is that that will be a short limitation. I know from countless conversations that I’ve had in the past with the police that these issues will be very, very carefully managed. It’s a time of grief, and so really working alongside, working with Māori wardens, that’s always our preference rather than things that, in those circumstances, are very, very delicate because of all of the grief involved. But, again, three days, at this stage, we’re asking for those restrictions. Media : Prime Minister, I think most people assumed that when we saw another outbreak it was going to be directly connected to the border. How surprising and concerning was it for you to— PM : And, look, it may yet still be. What we’re trying to identify is that chain, because, ultimately, there are a limited number of options for a how a case can come into New Zealand—by a traveller, and all our travellers are in quarantine; by someone working in a facility where a traveller with COVID is, and so we’re working to see if we can draw those links through some of that genome sequencing, whether that can help us build that link and then work backwards to people who have had contact with a workforce; or, of course, as you’ve heard, we are dealing with the potential here and trying to rule out whether or not it may have come in via some other freight. Media : Did some of the family, then, therefore, go to work while symptomatic and then travel to Rotorua while symptomatic? And if that’s the case, then surely that underlines the need for people to stay home. PM : Yes, obviously, as we’ve confirmed, there has been travel whilst symptomatic, and that underscores again why it is so important that, if you are sick, even if you are disappointing family and friends, it is so important that you stay home. We need people in workplaces as well to encourage others. If you are unwell—send your workmate home. No one needs people to be a trooper. We need them to think about others and be at home. Media : Can you expand at all on how long the family were in Rotorua for and their movements? I don’t if you talked about both workplaces or just one? Did you talk about both of the workplaces? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So the family were in Rotorua for a weekend trip. So last weekend, Saturday and Sunday, is my understanding. In terms of the workplaces, remembering the first case was tested on Tuesday and had been symptomatic for some days, including in the workplace. Likewise, the other family member—so the partner, who had actually been symptomatic for a couple of days prior to the onset of symptoms in our index case, had also been in the workplace. But, for both of them, their number of close contacts—they picked the team they worked in—or the number of people they had contact with in the workplace was actually very small. We’ll extend it out to the whole workplace as part of our approach to testing all, even casual, contacts. PM : Just to clarify, my understanding is it’s only one adult and one child who have tested positive who travelled to Rotorua—so not the whole family; just one adult and one child. OK. I’ll just check who hasn’t had questions. Media : What’s the risk of those close contacts returning false negatives? PM : For close contacts? Media : Close contacts. PM : So, for testing, the false negatives, that’s really dropped down as a percentage. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It is low, and just to be clear, anyone who’s a close contact remains in isolation for 14 days regardless of the test result. Casual contacts, who we are testing anyway, have to return a negative test before they can leave self-isolation, but they’re not required for the full 14 days unless there’s a clinical assessment that they should remain or the test be repeated again in a few days’ time. PM : So, regardless of whether or not you have a false negative, a close contact has to stay in isolation for 14 days no matter what. Media : What’s the percentage risk of returning a false negative? PM : It’s dropped, hasn’t it? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It has dropped. I can get you the information on the false negative rate for the PCR test. It’s low. PM : Quite low. It started off much higher, I think, but it’s declined. Media : Prime Minister, on masks, why have you chosen not to mandate mask usage— PM : At this stage. Media : —particularly in Auckland at this point, and is it something that’s still on the table? Could we still see mandated mask use? PM : Yes, we could still see mandated mask use. We haven’t done that as yet. One of our concerns is that not everyone will be prepared. So you may, for instance, wish to go to your local supermarket or do a click and collect with a local hardware store to pick up masks, and of course we wouldn’t want people being fined without having them while they’re endeavouring to get them. So that’s one reason. Also, we do want to get the message out that you can fashion your own mask. So, even if you’re unable to locate one at a supermarket or just the expense is prohibitive, you can use a bandanna or a scarf or something else as a face covering. We haven’t ruled out mandating mask use, but over the next few days, until Friday, in Auckland we are strongly encouraging their use when you step outside to go and undertake any jobs or anything you might do outside of your home, but we will continue to consider whether or not we mandate. The only place it’s in the Health Order, though, is for flights coming out of Auckland. You’ll be given mask there. Media : Just on mental health, what is your advice to people who are struggling with the news of a second lockdown? PM : I know that this news—and we can see that in Healthline calls; often those are individuals who are feeling really anxious about this information, and I have huge sympathy for that. This is unsettling. I know how I feel when I get a call with the information, and I imagine that’s how other New Zealanders feel too. So my advice is that 1737 is a line that’s available. I also really encourage people to reach out to their friends, their neighbours if they’re in Auckland, in particular, and check on them and check that they’re OK. Equally, we will keep giving as much information as we can. You know, we do have a plan. I know this is unsettling, but we do have a plan, we are rolling it out, and we have very, very good people who are working on this with a huge amount of effort to make sure we can limit the effects of this as much as possible. Media : If we do have an extension to the alert levels on Friday, what’s your thinking about an election date? Do you think that necessarily requires a pushback or a rolling— PM : Yeah, look at this stage, obviously, I don’t want to get too far down the track there, because the immediate focus has to be on this response. There are a range of options, of course. There is the option of sticking with the date that is there. The Electoral Commission have already planned for a level 2 election; so they’ve already got what is required to make sure that you can maintain social distancing and so on. Otherwise, there is the ability, of course, to simply move it within the legal parameters that exist. So, at the moment, any date before 21 November can be chosen. So that flexibility already exists. It only becomes more complicated if you seek to extend it beyond that 21 November date. So, at this stage, look, too early to make any decisions, but there is little bit of flexibility available if required. Media : Would it be fair to go ahead with the current election date, given the limitations on campaigning and your cut through in terms of speaking directly to public? PM : I would rather not be on this podium right now, discussing what we are discussing, and so I think probably everyone appreciates that. In terms of, you know, dates, though, one of the issues we have to keep in mind is that COVID will continue to exist in the world for the foreseeable future. And other countries have had to try and navigate election periods during COVID. We’re now having that experience too. I will constantly be mindful of both making sure we act fairly but, at the same time, at any point we’re having to calculate when it will be possible to do it at a time that all voters can freely participate and aren’t worried about participating. So that’s a real judgment, because COVID isn’t going to go away in the next six months. Media : Is there a plan around different economic and social measures that have to roll out at different alert levels, and, if so, what’s your— PM : Yeah, so immediately, of course, we have, thankfully, already put extra funding into things like the provision of food parcels. Extra support has already gone into food banks. You will have heard that we are now putting in extra measures like distribution of masks within those—so that immediate support. We also, for our public health units, they have the ability to immediately support those with financial constraints that might stop them from self-isolating. So, if we ask someone to stay at home and they need to cover off their income, we have the ability to do that; so we can remove the barriers for people self-isolating. The leave scheme is also in place. So, if you are asked by a PHU to self-isolate because you’re a close contact, the leave scheme will be able to cover your needs. If we go beyond those three days, then we’ll look more broadly, but that’s something that we’ll be considering over the next 48 hours. Media : The ban on evictions, is that also [Inaudible] PM : I would need to go and—let me, please, if I may, just look at the time frames that we had in place there. OK, a couple for Dr Bloomfield. Media : Dr Bloomfield, do you have any numbers on whether there’s been an upswing in the download or use of the COVID Tracer app? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, I heard this morning that there have been 100,000 downloads overnight—very pleasing. I’d love that to continue. This will be a really helpful tool, which we’ve been saying all along—and even just registering. So I would to encourage people to continue to use that. As the Prime Minister has mentioned, we’re also looking at businesses having a requirement, actually, to display a QR code in the Auckland region. PM : So I’ll give another update on the app, downloads, and also expectations for businesses around the use of QR codes at 4 o’clock today. But what I’d like to do is make sure that we have some communication with those representatives of some of those business organisations. [Interruption] Yep, I have some more questions for Dr Bloomfield. I didn’t want to cut off— Media : In Japan, there’s been a report just very recently of a woman who came from New Zealand, has travelled to Japan, was asymptomatic but has tested positive for COVID-19. Do you have any details of this? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I was aware of it from a few days ago. I haven’t had any further information, but we’ll give an update on that this afternoon. We had been notified by the national focal point there, but I haven’t had an update on that. I’ll provide that this afternoon. Media : Have we traced her close contacts, though, now that she has tested positive? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Let me check on that. PM : Keep in mind all of our internationals to date—and we’ve had a handful of them now—have, through multiple tests, demonstrated old infection. So that’s what we always try and rule out. Sometimes, when we’re dealing with counterparts overseas, requesting and having those repeat tests done in order to demonstrate to us old or new infection has taken a little bit of time, but we’ve usually, of course, acted with close-contact tracing beforehand while we’ve waited. Media : The health Minister has been saying for two few weeks now that all staff at the managed isolation facilities and the border are being tested. Why did you say last night that we will now test all of them? PM : So, just to be clear, at the Jet Park, where we put all of our COVID cases, we have very frequent testing of everyone. At some of the other facilities, it’s not as frequent as what we have at the Jet Park, because that’s where all our COVID cases are. So what we’re doing now is a fresh run of everyone, because you’ve got a cycle of testing. We want to make sure we’ve got a fresh run of testing—immediately. Media : But we were told that was across all isolation facilities— PM : Yes. Media : —so staff were being tested, the bus drivers were being tested, the border staff were being tested— PM : Yes. Yes. And they are, but they’re not tested every single day, obviously. I’ve just told you that we’ve got roughly 7,000 people that would be captured by that; so there’s a rotation of people being tested. It’s more frequent at the MIQ where our people with COVID cases are. Media : Should we have been testing them more often? PM : More often than—? Media : Than we have been. PM : Well, of course, we have had testing across all of those sites, but at the MIQ we’ve targeted a higher frequency of those where we have the COVID cases but also been mindful that constantly swabbing every day or on a regular basis is just not something that we can ask of 7,000 people every single day. Media : There were some concerns raised about nurses working both inside those managed isolation facilities and then going back and working on the wards. Has that completely stopped? PM : For the Jet—for where we have the COVID cases, they only—workers only—work at that facility. Media : What about the rest of the managed isolation facilities? PM : I’d need to check in with the Minister of Health, but I can tell you that for certain, for the Jet Park, it is an isolated—people only work in the Jet Park. Media : What does this mean for the Cook Islands bubble? PM : I would want to talk to Prime Minister Puna, but obviously I would have thought, given our expectations on the Cooks, that their expectations on us would be that we’d be free of community transmission. I’ll take the last couple of questions, because I do want to make sure Dr Bloomfield’s able to go and continue work. Media : Dr Bloomfield, just on the tourist attractions that the woman in her 20s and the child visited in Rotorua, have they been shut down—will they need to close? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not at this stage. We don’t have enough information on that; so that information will be being sought at the moment, and we’ll be giving advice as to whether that needs to happen, and we’ll update later in the day. PM : We’ll give another update at 4 o’clock on that. Last two—here and here. Media : Dr Bloomfield, after so many days without community transmission, how did you feel when you got that text, just before three yesterday, to say “We’ve got a community case.”? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I’m sure I felt like every New Zealander, and the Prime Minister’s already said she felt—of course we’re disappointed. We’ve been making the point that—it was, in fact, I think, last week I said, “It’s a matter of when, not if.” And now is the time that has happened. What we want to do is get to the bottom of it and also find out the extent of the outbreak, ring-fence it, and get on top of it quickly. As I said earlier, we’ve done this before; we can do it again. If there’s one place in the world where people should have hope that we can get on top of this, it’s this country, Aotearoa New Zealand. Media: Dr Bloomfield, does the ministry still advise against regional shifts in alert levels, as it did in April? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, we’ve seen, actually, here that we have in this situation—remembering, now, our advice in April was while we were coming out of a big outbreak and coming out of a lockdown. We now have been in alert level 1, and all our planning, our resurgence planning, in the health system and across Government has included scenarios that would include different alert levels in different regions, and that’s what we’re seeing playing out at the moment. Media : So were the ministry supportive? PM : So that advice, as I recall, was all around whether or not we should move to a regional—after coming off level 4, where we were nationwide, whether or not we should move, for instance, the West Coast to level 3 and Gisborne to level 2 while we were coming out of that alert level 4. So that is my recollection of the advice that Health were giving at that time. I don’t think anyone ruled out the possibility of using a regional approach more generally. OK. Thank you, everyone; we’ll be back at 4 o’clock. Kia ora koutou. In light of alert level 3 restrictions coming into effect in Auckland from midday today, Police will be increasing our visibility, for reassurance purposes, and establishing road checkpoints. Police has been planning for the possibility of a return of COVID to community transmission, including the possibility of regional restrictions. So we will shortly release details of the boundaries to be enforced—in fact, those details have now been published on the Police website. Police will have a high-visibility presence across the region, with all three Tāmaki-makau-rau police district commanders working together to manage a regional response to alert level 3. We will be visible around supermarkets and places where communities need assurance of police presence. Once again, we are urging people to play their part. We’re relying on people to heed the message to go home and stay home. From midday, we will be operating nine checkpoints at exit and entry areas just inside the regional boundaries largely based on the Auckland super-city. There are five checkpoints in the north, just north of Te Hana, and there are four in the south, in the vicinity of Bombay, Pukekohe. These checkpoints will initially be staffed by police, but we may engage support from partners, including the Defence Force, in due course. We’ll be stopping vehicles and questioning drivers to validate that the travel is essential. As has been our approach throughout COVID-19, our first approach will be to engage, to educate, and encourage people to comply, before going to enforcement. We have issued a reminder to our people: they need to be exercising good hygiene and social distancing practices. And we’ve issued a directive that Auckland staff will wear masks when dealing with the public and other PPE gear, as necessary. For the rest of the country, this is not new territory, and hopefully there’s a strong community willingness to abide by the restrictions of alert level 2. I’m happy to take any questions. Media : Do you think that there will be community buy-in, given that we’re going through this again? Last time, I think there was a real impetus, wasn’t there, in driving the entire country, but do you think the more we go in and out of lockdowns that that impetus will be reduced? Commissioner Andrew Coster : I believe New Zealanders have a choice. We’ve seen what it looks like overseas when we don’t get this right. I think we know what we need to do to get back to where we’ve been, and I’m really confident that New Zealanders will step up to that. Media : At what point would you bring the Defence Force in to help at those checkpoints? Commissioner Andrew Coster : We will probably do that sooner than later, simply to enable the maximum availability of police resourcing for reassurance within the Auckland region. Media : Were you disappointed to see the behaviour of some in Auckland at supermarkets last night? Commissioner Andrew Coster : I’m aware that there were some pressures on queues as people reacted to the situation. I think that’s isolated. Our experience throughout level 3 was that people could get the food and supplies they needed, and people do not need to worry about that. Media : Will you take the same escalated response from warning to prosecution as you did last time, or do you think there will be a harder line? Commissioner Andrew Coster : We’re still taking the same approach. We recognise people need some time to adapt, but also people know now what the levels mean, and once that settling-in period is done, then we will respond appropriately. Media : How soon are you looking at the Defence Force coming in to help police? Commissioner Andrew Coster : The Defence Force has indicated immediate availability to support us; so we’re working through the logistics of that. There will always be a police presence at those locations, but we can draw on defence staff to help us across those nine locations. Media : How resource-heavy are these nine roadblocks, and where are the police resources coming from? Commissioner Andrew Coster : We’re initially requiring 40 staff at any one time across those locations. There will be a bit of adjustment as we step through, just to see the volumes of traffic and how we can keep that flowing. So we’ll assess it, but we will draw on past lessons. Media : Sorry, it was 40 across all nine roadblocks, not 40 at each? Commissioner Andrew Coster : Correct. Media : What test will you use to determine whether or not travel is essential when people will have the legitimate excuse that they could be heading back to their normal place of residence? How will you distinguish the two? Commissioner Andrew Coster : We will speak to people and check the reason for their travel. If people want to avoid unnecessary delay, then bringing the best evidence they have of their place of residence will enable them to pass through smoothly. Media : So, like a bank statement or— Commissioner Andrew Coster : Anything that indicates what their home address is. Media : Commissioner, when it comes to tangihanga restrictions, can we expect police to work with iwi in terms of no warrants, or with or without warrants? Commissioner Andrew Coster : Absolutely. So this is exactly the same approach we have taken throughout. We’ve worked really carefully with iwi. I’m aware you had a question earlier about our approach with marae. During the initial lockdown, we worked with iwi leaders to agree a protocol so that that power would be exercised in consultation, and we will continue to work that way. Media : In terms of checkpoints, are police happy to work with iwi in reinstating those? Commissioner Andrew Coster : Level 3 applies only to Auckland, level 2 to everywhere else. There’s no legal basis for checkpoints during level 2, either by police or by anybody else. We are operating checkpoints at all entry and exit points for Tāmaki-makau-rau, and so there is no need for others to respond in that way. Media : Just to be clear, will we see Defence Force staff at these checkpoints from today, for example? Commissioner Andrew Coster : It’s quite possible that we will have them in place from today, but we’re working through those details. Media : That could be quite alarming for a lot of people, seeing Defence Force on the ground, policing in this way. What do you say to them? Commissioner Andrew Coster : It’s quite common for Civil Defence to engage to help New Zealanders in times of emergency. There’s frequent operation of Defence domestically in the civil defence context; so this is the context we’re talking about. It will always be with the presence of police, and we would expect all people to operate the same way as us—calm, compassionate, confident are the three words that we’ve used to describe our intended style. Media : Can you give New Zealanders an assurance that it will only be the police enforcing then, that the Defence Force are only there to provide information? Commissioner Andrew Coster : Absolutely. The powers for enforcement in this setting are with police. We’re not expecting, at the checkpoints, to need to take a lot of enforcement action. It will be a question of checking, understanding the reason for travel, and then allowing through those who are allowed to pass. Media : What sort of police presence will there be around Auckland in general, with the limited time outside the house and essential work and that sort of thing? Commissioner Andrew Coster : We have an enhanced presence that will be focusing particularly on locations where people may need reassurance—essential services, supermarkets, and the like. Our experience during lockdown previously was that demand for police services drop when people aren’t so much out doing their ordinary activities. So I’ve got no concerns about our ability to do that. Media : Will you be out on the coast as well? Like last time there were people walking along the beach on nice days and—you know? Commissioner Andrew Coster : We’ll be monitoring the key spots, but I think people now are in a pretty good routine of what’s allowed at this alert level, and I’m sure that will settle pretty quickly. Media : Are you preparing at the moment in case similar measures might be needed in Rotorua? Commissioner Andrew Coster : We’re always preparing. So we’ve been preparing since we got out of the controls we’ve had before to make sure we’re ready, so we have the ability to mobilise where required. Media : Are there more than nine exits from Auckland? Have we covered every exit with checkpoints? Commissioner Andrew Coster : At those locations, because of the way Auckland is structured, yes, we are able to cover it with nine in those points. Media : What sort of penalties would people face if they are found to be breaching the lockdown rules? Commissioner Andrew Coster : That’s a matter for the courts, obviously, if we take a prosecution action in terms of penalty. But all of those provisions are contained within the COVID Act. Media : How much more difficult is it to police a regional lockdown? It’s the first time we’ve had a regional lockdown, opposed to a country-wide lockdown. Commissioner Andrew Coster : It has some complexity, primarily around containing the flow of traffic in and out. Clearly, freight and other services will be permitted to move. We will be wanting to make sure that we keep Auckland moving in that sense, and so, yes, that’s different. But it’s not altogether different from what we would do if we were running a breath-testing checkpoint or similar. Media : What kind of personal protective equipment are you and officers working at those roadblocks using? Commissioner Andrew Coster : Officers engaging with the public will be expected to wear, at a minimum, masks, and then they have other PPE if there’s a risk indicator—for example somebody who’s symptomatic—but at that location it would be masks. Media : Are police officers on the ground still receiving information about the positive COVID-19 cases in the country? Commissioner Andrew Coster : I’m sorry; say that again. Media : Police officers on the ground were receiving the information about the positive COVID-19 cases in the country. The Privacy Commissioner’s had a conversation with Police about that. Will those officers on the ground still have that information available to them in NIA so that they can make use of it? Commissioner Andrew Coster : That’s a continuing conversation with the Ministry of Health, in light of our conversations with the Privacy Commissioner, but there is still a place for limited sharing of information where a risk to staff requires that knowledge. Media : But currently, on the ground, do the officers have that information? Commissioner Andrew Coster : They will have, I understand, in the cases where it’s appropriate. That’s a current conversation. Media : So is that like cases where, if the police officer is in Auckland, they will have that information? Commissioner Andrew Coster : It would be if there’s somebody who is symptomatic and not properly isolated—you know, in the sense of being in a quarantine facility. I expect that we will have the information in that case, but that is being worked through. Media : Are you preparing for a greater number of people to possibly breach rules or regulations, or less social cohesion this time around, after we’ve gone through this once before? Commissioner Andrew Coster : As I said before, I think New Zealanders were proud of where we were with no community transmission, and I believe that we want to be there again. We know we can do it, and that’s the kind of response that we’re looking for from the community. Media : Are you prepared for it, though? Do you consider it’s a possibility? Commissioner Andrew Coster : Of course it’s a possibility, and we’ll monitor carefully, but we’ve been able to adapt our enforcement approach according to what we’re seeing, and we will do that. Media : Do you think because we’ve done it before that it will be easier to enforce? Commissioner Andrew Coster : I think it’s easier for people to know what needs to be done, and to know that it’s possible, and that increases the likelihood that people will want to do that. In terms of our officers, they’re well familiar with what it looks like to police in this mode; so, in a sense, having had a practice does make it easier. Media : Are you preparing that 105 line again for reporting breaches of that lockdown? Commissioner Andrew Coster : The 105 line, or “ten-five”, is always operating, and that is a potential channel for reporting breaches, and, of course, we are working with partners around things such as business compliance to make sure that those rules are being followed. Media : And are you going to be redeploying more staff to it and anticipating an upswing in complaints again? Commissioner Andrew Coster : We will do if required. As I said before, our previous experience has been that other demands tend to reduce a bit when we’re in lockdown; so there’s a bit of a balancing that occurs naturally there. Media : How many of those nine checkpoints will actually be on motorways? Commissioner Andrew Coster : Well, the motorway enters and exits at two places on those boundaries—one in the north, one in the south. Those are the high-volume locations, and then there a number of other minor roads that will need minimal presence, but the map is now uploaded on to the news section of the Police website so you can see where they are. Media : Are you 100 percent confident that no one can leave Auckland without going through a police checkpoint? Commissioner Andrew Coster : I’m absolutely confident that we’ve identified the right locations. If someone is wanting to tramp through the bush in order to leave, then I’m sure they’ll find a way, but, you know, we’re relying on people to do the right thing. It’s hard to make a large city hermetically sealed, and so, ultimately, we need people to buy in and do the right thing. Media : The Defence Force personnel who are helping out and giving information, etc., they’re not going to carry any armaments of any kind? They’ll be— Commissioner Andrew Coster : No, absolutely not. Media: Are the police going to be doing check-ins on people who are in self-isolation? Commissioner Andrew Coster : We will work with Health around the requirements for that. It depends very much on how things track and how the cases that are identified are able to be managed. So there are a range of options we could pursue there. Media : Will you be doing check-ups on businesses and things in Auckland to make sure that they are adhering to the rules? Commissioner Andrew Coster : In a general sense, we will be observing for compliance with the rules. In some situations, it will be more appropriate for other agencies to undertake business enforcement, but Police is always part of that effort. Media : Have you had to up-staff, cancel leave to bring everyone together to enforce this law? Commissioner Andrew Coster : Not at this stage. As I’ve said, we have 2,000 to 3,000 staff in Auckland. So the requirement for checkpoints is a pretty modest one. We will keep an eye on it, but, at this stage, no. Media : Have you been briefed at all that businesses could be required to display QR codes and that will be part of the compliance checks? Commissioner Andrew Coster : That will certainly be something that Police may be involved in, but it’s more likely that other agencies would support that, be it MBIE, WorkSafe, and the like. Media : OK. But you have been informed that businesses will be required to display— Commissioner Andrew Coster : We are aware of that. Thank you all very much. Last modified: 17 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Kia ora koutou and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us again for our 4 o’clock update. We are now four hours into level 3 lockdown in Auckland and level 2 restrictions in the rest of New Zealand as we roll out our plan to quickly stamp out the re-emergence of COVID outside of our managed isolation facilities. Our plan of mass testing, rapid contact tracing, and, of course, our restrictions to stop the train of transmission has been in full swing in Auckland today. I will begin, as I did this morning, by handing over to Dr Bloomfield to provide an update on what more we’ve learnt about cases, the action that has been taken on those cases, and the contact tracing around them. I’ll then come back and give an update on other matters such as mask distribution, telehealth services, support for businesses that may be in urgent need of support in the near future, and then we’ll conclude and take questions. Dr Bloomfield. Thank you, Prime Minister. Kia ora koutou katoa. So just to start off with, there is one additional new case of COVID-19 to report in a managed isolation facility today. So that’s in addition to the four confirmed cases that we reported last evening in the Auckland community and that were announced yesterday. There are also an additional four probable cases who are people with symptoms linked to the four community-based cases we talked about last night and earlier this morning. All of these probable cases are awaiting test results. We will make available the test results as soon as we have them, but they are all being treated as probable cases and therefore are in full isolation, and full contact tracing has been initiated for those cases. The case that is in a managed isolation facility is a woman in her 50s who arrived in New Zealand on 7 August from Islamabad via Dubai. She has been in managed isolation since, and her positive test result was returned when she had a test at around day three of her stay. She is now in the Auckland quarantine facility. So our total number of confirmed cases is now 1,225. Five of the previously reported cases have recovered, so the number of active cases remains at 22—none of whom require hospital-level care. Yesterday our labs processed 4,225 tests. That brings the total number of tests completed to date over the half a million mark, and the total is 502,705. I’d just like to provide an update on the Rotorua situation, which I mentioned this morning. We now have a little more information I’d like to share, and we will have more information that we will make available on our website and through media updates as the day progresses. Based on the information we do have, we are confident that the visit to Rotorua of the four family members—two of whom have subsequently returned a positive test—has not resulted in anyone who is classified as a close contact. However, we are taking a very precautionary approach, as you know, and the family, in the time they were in Rotorua, which was between 8 and 11 August, visited a number of locations, including eateries. I don’t have the specific information on those as yet, but, as soon as we do and have notified those businesses and have the times and dates that they were there, we will publicise that. What I can tell you is that we can confirm three locations. The first is that the family stayed at the Wai Ora Lakeside hotel from 8 to 11 August, and two of the visits they undertook were to the Skyline gondola and lodge, which was on 9 August, from 4 till 6 p.m., and the heritage farm and 3D art gallery on 10 August, between 3 and 4 p.m. So as we find out more detail about other locations that they visited, we will make that available, and we will also send out an alert via the NZ COVID Tracer app so people who were at those locations at the time and on the date that we talked about and who scanned in with the app—which I hope people did—will be made aware as well through that means. In the meantime, from a health perspective, we remain confident that alert level 2 is the right level for Rotorua, and the advice doesn’t change. Anyone who was in those locations at that period should be aware of symptoms, whether they are from Rotorua or were visiting from out of town. Testing in our managed isolation and quarantine facilities is progressing, alongside our community testing. And, as the Prime Minister mentioned this morning, between Auckland and our facilities in Rotorua and in Christchurch and in Wellington, there are between 6,000 and 7,000 people to test, and testing was under way from this morning at all those sites. And we know that DHBs have a plan in place to ensure that all people who fall into that category are tested over coming days. Auckland is clearly the majority of those people and where we will be concentrating the effort. An update on contact tracing: as of around midday, just over 200 close contacts have been identified, and over 100 of those have already been phoned and spoken with. Most of those contacts are from two workplaces, and those people had been told last evening or this morning to remain at home—the workplaces are closed—and to stay at home until they were contacted and given further instructions. What I would like to do at this point in time, though, is just to back that up with an action that I can take under the Health Act. And because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health, I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. So I require the following people to do two things: that is to isolate at their usual home and to not go out to work, and remain isolated until they are contacted by our national contact tracing service and they receive further direction. And that direction applies to the following people, if you could listen carefully: any employees or contractors of two employers. One is Americold in the Mount Wellington suburb in Auckland, and the other is the company Finance Now, and that is the Dominion Road branch in Auckland. I would also say that the direction applies to the following, and that is any visitors to those workplaces—any visitors to those workplaces in the last 14 days—and any people who ordinarily live with those employees or contractors or visitors. Now, recall that both these workplaces are in Auckland, and Auckland in toto is now under an alert level 3 arrangement. So people will be staying at home anyway—everybody, unless they are going out to work or to access an essential business like a pharmacy or a supermarket. If any of those people who I’m currently directing to remain at home require advice to assess financial assistance while in isolation as directed, please call Work and Income on the following number: 0800 559 009. And I will put this direction also on the covid19.govt.nz website. Prime Minister, I think I’ll hand back to you there. PM : Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. Just to recap, you can see that we continue to ramp up our efforts to get on top of this re-emergence, and are taking the steps of ensuring that we’re not using just one way, but up to three ways to try and reach individuals who we are asking to follow the director-general’s orders issued today. So firstly, those workplaces have themselves contacted their employers. We have contact tracing under way, and you will have heard that we’ve got roughly 200 contacts, good progress being made, and roughly 160 people working in that contact centre, so you can see that the ratio of calls they are having to make is low, so they’re working through them very quickly. But the third step we’re taking is to use a public platform to notify people directly as well. So those are the steps we’re taking to make sure we get those individuals into isolation as quickly as possible. The COVID Cabinet committee met at 1 p.m. today, chaired by myself, and included the Deputy Prime Minister. All other Ministers inside Cabinet were invited to attend as well. We were updated on the cases that we are actioning and other work that we are undertaking as we roll out our resurgence plan. Ministers will convene again tomorrow, and it was also agreed that a full Cabinet meeting will make decisions on Friday on next steps. Our aim will be to make sure that those decisions are in time to inform people of any changes well in advance of the Friday midnight setting we have for our level 3 and level 2 restrictions at present. At noon today, a new COVID-19 public health response order came into effect. The order provides the legal basis to require people to stay at home unless they are working in places where it is safe to do so to ensure physical distancing and the conditions under which businesses can operate. Nothing in the order there, in that regard, is new relative to what we all experienced at level 3 previously. They’re all in keeping with those previous requirements, with just two exceptions, and I want to spend a bit of time just talking about those two exceptions that are new from what we experienced the last time we were in level 3. So this is particularly important. First, the order makes it mandatory for any business or service to display a QR code for the COVID Tracer app prominently at all entry points, allowing everyone to sign in via the tracing app. So what is mandatory is the display of that QR code. We have allowed one week in order for business to be compliant. We understand that some businesses have not yet downloaded the QR code. We ask them to do that as soon as possible, but before it will be enforced, there is a week’s grace there to allow that to happen. Many businesses, as you will note, have done that already, because you’ll see them on display. The ability to contact trace quickly is one of the key tools we have to find new cases and get them in isolation to avoid future lockdowns, so always using the app is a big investment in keeping our businesses and economy open. It will protect you and it will protect the people around you. Last night, over 100,000 people downloaded the app, and I would urge anyone who hasn’t done so yet to get the app on their phone and get into the habit of signing into places. I can tell you from personal experience it is very quick and it is very easy to use. The second new element of the health order is something I already briefly touched on this morning, and that is the requirement for people traveling out of Auckland to wear a face covering on a plane. We are specific to planes here because of the close proximity. Of course, we continue to ask people to only use this form of transport if they are leaving Auckland because it is not their primary place of residence and they need to relocate themselves. While we are not requiring everyone else in Auckland to wear a face mask or a face covering, we are strongly urging it. Think of it as a duty to one another and a simple act to help stop any spread, and it’s now a proven line of defence to protecting your own health. It’s also a sign you care about your community and the members of our team of 5 million. As I said this morning, the Government has released 5 million extra face masks from the national health stockpile. I can now confirm that 1 million masks have been allocated to Countdown, and we have another million also available. The Government has been in contact with social service agencies and other providers today, and it is also our intention to distribute 3 million masks via social services and delivery agencies to those who may otherwise struggle to afford or access masks. We’re working with suppliers and supply chains to ensure that masks are getting to supermarkets and other places where people can purchase them, and, of course, as I said before, cloth and reusable face coverings, bandanas, scarves wrapped around the nose and mouth—they will suffice. So if you can’t get out to purchase one or the expense is a barrier, please use what else you may have on hand. So just to recap: the orders are as they stood previously but now include the requirement around face masks for plane travel and the use of the QR code—that is the Government QR code for the COVID Tracer app specifically—is included. I’m just about to finish, but I will wrap on this. I know many people have contacted Healthline because they have questions or because they might be feeling anxious. That is totally understandable. We have 600 people taking calls for our telehealth services. We’ve added another 90 staff today. By tomorrow, there will be another 180 staff working those phone lines. I understand, though, there are delays at the moment. I ask: if you’ve got questions about level 3 restrictions for Auckland, please jump online and just free up those services for those who might need them for health or mental health reasons. The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme—I do want to talk about this because of the anxiety that I know many businesses in Auckland in particular will be experiencing. The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is there for all businesses that are experiencing financial hardship. It covers workers who are unable to work from home and need to self-isolate. The rate is $585.80 for full-time workers and $350 for part-time workers. Applications for the wage subsidy scheme extension also remain open until 1 September. That means if a business hasn’t used the extension to date but has experienced a 40 percent decline in their revenue—and that’s across a 30-day period within the 40 days before they apply—they can apply and receive an additional eight weeks of support. Now, I know the restrictions that are in place in Auckland now may tip people into now being eligible for the extension of the wage subsidy when they may not have been prior. It is still available. I encourage you to reach out to Work and Income; make an application if you need that extra support. The small business cash flow scheme remains open until 31 December, and that gives interest-free loans for up to a year of up to $100,000 for businesses employing 50 or fewer workers. And, of course, finally the COVID income relief payment for people who lose their job between 1 March and 30 October as a result of COVID is paid at the same rate as the wage subsidy for 12 weeks, and that remains open until 13 November. Again, anyone interested in those payments, please reach out to Work and Income. Alongside this, the finance Minister met with the Treasury yesterday, and they’re working on targeted economic support for the Auckland region if we’re in a scenario where level 3 is to last longer than the present three days. A reminder too, this re-emergence is the exact reason why we set aside the remaining $14 billion of the COVID fund in case we had that need. Support aside, the best economic response remains that strong health response. Going hard, going early with a lockdown is still the best strategy for getting businesses back open as soon as it is safe. Before I end, a quick reminder of why it is just so important that we stick to the plan we’re rolling out at present. There were 322 new cases of COVID-19 in Australia yesterday, 664 people are in hospitals, 54 in intensive care units, and 39 on ventilators. Across the globe there were 19.9 million cases yesterday. Our response to the virus so far has worked. It opened our economy and our communities and it gave New Zealanders freedoms that we cherished, and we all want to get back there as soon as we can, but success relies on us all working together, looking out for one another. We know how to beat this, but we also know we don’t need to look far to see what it can mean if we don’t get on top of it. We have a plan and now is the time to follow it. We are happy to take questions. Media : Dr Bloomfield, do you have any concerns about the Auckland family and where they were before they isolated other than the workplaces? Were they churchgoers, for example? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There’s been a very full discussion with the family. Aside from the trip to Rotorua, there are no other locations that present any particular risk. So, no, they hadn’t been at a church or other service on the preceding weekend or two. Media : The four new probable cases, are they all colleagues? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Two are— PM : Four new. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The four probable cases— Media : Four new probable—that’s it: four new probable cases— PM : Yeah, sorry, it just rolls off like 40, so I just wanted to— Media : Four. PM : Four, thank you. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The four probable cases are ones we have mentioned. So two are work colleagues and two are another related household that one of the cases had stayed at in the preceding week. Media : Are we any closer to identifying the source of this strain, and is there any indication that anyone in this family was related to anyone that worked at managed isolation facilities? PM : No suggestion as yet, but we were, just prior to coming down here, discussing the interviews that are ongoing with the new probable cases, because, of course, that’s important to seeing whether or not there are any links to either MIQ or border workers, and so those interviews are ongoing and we are, of course, awaiting the test results to confirm if they are indeed cases. Media : Will there be any penalty— PM : You asked the other question around links and some of the testing. The genome testing: we’re expecting that within the next 24 hours we’ll have more information there. Quite a bit of analysis needs to go on, so that’s why it’s more than likely we’ll just need that extra time. Media : Will there be any penalties for those who don’t display—or what will the penalties be for those businesses that don’t display the QR code? PM : So it is within the health order—I’ll need to check, actually, the penalty regime that sits alongside it. I can give you an update on that tomorrow, but we are giving that week’s grace, because, obviously, it does take a bit of effort. You’ve got to use your business number to generate the code. We have previously asked business development agencies to support businesses to try and produce those, and so we’re giving those seven days, but really as soon as possible we’d like businesses displaying them, and many, many are. Media : Is there any indication, Dr Bloomfield, as to how many people the Health Act Order that you’ve put in place—how many people that will affect? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, there are the 208 who we know are close or casual contacts, and it also will impact on family members of those people, and, as well as that, others who have visited and their family members. So, in total, that’s likely to be at least several hundred and possibly over a thousand. It is the just over 200 close contacts so far who are being contacted by our service, and they will, on the basis of the discussion they have with them, then give them further advice around testing of both themselves and any family members. PM : And just to add—probably helpful to add—many people will have seen there’s a large number of people seeking testing at the testing stations that have been established. We have dedicated testing for those that are identified by our public health units as being close contacts or contacts of contacts so that we can expedite that testing so that we don’t have them waiting in long queues when we need that information very, very quickly. Media : Dr Bloomfield, you mentioned in your introductory remarks that there were other businesses, and you would provide details of those businesses, that the family had visited—when can we expect to get those? Because presumably you’ve been interviewing them for 24 hours now, why isn’t that public? PM : You mean the eateries in Rotorua where they may have eaten? Media : You mentioned a couple. You alluded to the Skyline and that, but you said there would be others to come as well. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That’s right. So the family visit there was several days long. That has been a conversation that’s been happening with them today. And before we release the information we want to have talked with the business first. These are the ones who we’ve got information, first of all, about the business; secondly, about the date and time it was visited so we can make that available; and, third, there’s been an opportunity to talk with the owners of the business before we’ve made that public. So we will continue to make that information available as it comes through. Media : Because from a public perspective, when we talk about the speed that we need to have with contact tracing, 24 hours is a long time to have talked to this family. So people would want to know if they had been in the same place as these people by now. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes. So what we were able to provide information about this morning was that they had made a trip to Rotorua. So we let all New Zealanders know: if you’ve been in Rotorua—and it’s the same advice now—be very alert and, including people who live there, be just alert for symptoms. And we gave information about testing opportunities in Rotorua. Of course, the interview happens first with the first case, and then from there it goes out as we find out other close contacts, starting, of course, with family members—in this case there were a number, including three who tested positive as well. So then it’s a matter of going and having a conversation and going right back to 14 days. And again, this is the value of the app, in that it provides that nice record and a reminder of where people have been. PM : Keeping in mind—I think it’s important to note that Dr Bloomfield noted, at this point, we are considering those that even would have been at those eateries to be casual contacts, so the advice would be the same as we are giving to, generally, those who have visited the Rotorua region. This just gives us more specificity around people being mindful of their symptoms and their health. Media : What about the likes of dairies and supermarkets that they’ve used in their own local area? Why are you just, sort of, concentrating on Rotorua? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, that’s, of course, part of the conversation that’s been had with them—all the locations they have visited in the last 14 days, from symptom onset. Remembering that, of course, Auckland is now in an alert level 3 situation, so anyone who may have been in those businesses that they may have visited, or—there have been no other locations that have come to light so far that we need to name and specifically require people or notify people. The important thing here is if people have got symptoms, they should seek a test. PM : Equally, at the same time, another reason why we’ve got that whole region at level 3—because as we work to identify those sites, we, of course, release that information. In the meantime, we are asking people who can to work from home and, when they go out, to wear masks. So those extra precautions help us as extra layers of protection as we continue to work through in more detail—more detail around who the exact close contacts are for these families. Media : So you don’t think at the moment it’s necessary to test all the workers, for example, at those Rotorua businesses? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : At the Rotorua businesses? In fact, part of our advice to the businesses will be to get staff who were on those shifts who may have had contact to be tested. PM : Yeah. You’ll notice that we do take a precautionary approach, and even casual contacts are being tested in many scenarios. Media : Last time we were in level 2, there was a requirement that businesses maintain a contact-tracing register of some sort. That doesn’t appear to be in the new public health order. Are businesses only required to display a QR code but not maintain any other sort of register, or— PM : Yeah, and this is something that the Minister of Health is actually working through at the moment. So at the moment there are, as I understand, actually some duplicate asks of businesses, but we need to reconcile those because the business has a responsibility to make sure they’re keeping a register, so that essentially implies they have an obligation to make sure that people use the app if it’s available. So that’s a detail we’re just working through at present, but that, again, at the moment we’re asking people: get that QR code up. We’ll work through some of those extra obligations. Media : So what’s the intention of the order, or what do you expect it will be once that is worked through—that there will be required scanning? PM : Yeah, the intention here is that everyone is able to use the app wherever they go. The concern is that unless we’re requiring businesses to display it—some of you may have already experienced, you’ve come to go and scan and there hasn’t been a QR code available, and sometimes that’ll mean people just put their phone back in their pocket. We need to make it available, and the easiest way to do that, of course, is to make sure everyone is providing the opportunity. Media : Have you considered revisiting the issue of testing within aged residential care since yesterday? It’s obviously a really problematic area. Is that something you’ll re - look at? PM : Of course, those residential facilities—residential facilities across the country have gone into their own form of lockdown. So of midday today you will have heard—and this was actually something that they were very keen themselves to instigate; in fact, many instigated it yesterday. Visitors in and out—unless they are delivery services or staff coming to work, there are no visitors coming into facilities at present. Media : But why not pre-emptively test, granted the risk? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Look, that’s one of the settings we’re in constant discussion with. So there’s been a meeting with them today—actually, probably more than one. So we will have a low threshold for other measures, which may include testing or use of PPE and/or more stringent infection prevention and control. Media : Has the Government given any more thought to the idea of postponing the election given the circumstances? PM : Look, my view is that you’ll already have heard me this morning talk about giving us a bit more time by moving out the date on which Parliament is dissolved, so that just gives us a few extra days. My view is that we’ll have time to deal with that date once we have a bit more information. We’re in the first 24 hours of a response to resurgence; our immediate focus has been that: giving ourselves the room to fully consider the implications of a move in date and what we find out about what resurgence we’re seeing at the moment. Media : So can we expect an announcement by Sunday? PM : You can expect before—of course, we’ll need to make that decision before we see Parliament dissolve, which is intended to be now on Monday. So yes, I will be filling you in with a bit more detail then. But immediate responses: let’s use the time we’ve got to really get a full picture of what these cases mean for New Zealand over the coming weeks. Media : Judith Collins is suggesting as late as next year. Is that even possible? PM : Again, as I’d say again that we’ve got time to deal with the date. Right now, our absolute focus in this first 24 hours is on that resurgence plan. I will come back—we’ve given ourselves a few extra days to be able to consider some of the issues here. But I think, actually, it’s only right that in this immediate aftermath we’re focused on the health response and making sure we’re doing everything we can to support people’s jobs as well. Media : Dr Bloomfield, are GPs still restricted to 20 swabs per order? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, they’re not. Media : Dr Bloomfield, as Americold—is there a risk that Americold has shipped refrigerated packages tainted with COVID-19 to businesses across the country? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I couldn’t say. As I said this morning, we’re not ruling out—although, again, it’s unlikely. We’ve had a look at the evidence—in fact the Prime Minister’s chief science adviser and her team had a look at the evidence—around the virus on fomites, and particularly in this sort of refrigerated setting. We’re not ruling that out, and of course we want to get to the bottom of that, and that’s why the actual cool store environment has been swabbed, so it will be interesting to see the results of those. Media : Have you been following up with any of their customers? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not at this point. PM : So we will continue to investigate that as we have as we’ve tried to rule out all potential vectors, really. Fomites just being, you know, the static objects or materials that can carry infection. Media : The name of the game at the moment seems to be contact trace, isolate, test. And, correct me if I’ve got the numbers wrong, there’s around 200— PM : Yep. Media : —close contacts, and you’ve identified and made contact with about 160 of them? PM : I’ve just been informed that, actually, that all have now been contacted. And keeping in mind, of course, that was the third, because, of course, the workplaces themselves have contacted, the contact tracers have now contacted, and, of course, we’ve given this verbal order as well. Media : So the question is: are you satisfied with the speed? Is the system functioning as you would like it, or there are deficiencies? PM : Oh, we’re constantly working to move everything as quickly as we can, because, keeping in mind, we’ve identified these close contacts now. As we have additional probables, we’re already instigating new close contacts. So it’s good to have made contact in the initial first instance with all of those originally identified because we will have a continual rolling number of people that we’ll be checking in with. Media : Dr Bloomfield, when do you expect to receive the results back from those swabs from the cool store in order to rule out that as a— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : You mean of the environment, of the surfaces? I couldn’t say, but it won’t be today. It could be tomorrow. I’ll give an update on that tomorrow. Media : Prime Minister, Gerry Brownlee is saying that it’s “interesting facts” that you visited a mask store and that Dr Bloomfield had a COVID-19 test. Was that just a coincidence? What do you make of his assertions? PM : You’ll recall that it was actually on the day that there was a change in National leadership, from Todd Muller to Judith Collins that I first stood in front of you and talked about our resurgence plan and why it was necessary. The idea that we would keep information back from the public when that is critical to us being able to look after their health and, therefore, their financial wellbeing and their jobs—the idea that we would ever do that is just nonsense, and that’s the last I’m going to say on it. Media : Does this beating around the bushes that Gerry Brownlee’s doing, sort of implying but not saying—does that undermine the country’s health response? PM : I do think that, you know, if I could ask for the energy of the Opposition to be channelled into anything right now, it would be supporting New Zealand’s overall response to this resurgence, because the sooner that we can get on top of it, the sooner that we can ensure the security of people’s incomes, their health, their livelihoods, and then, after that, of course, that of course enables us to hold, safely, elections. So that is where I would ask them to put their energy right now, because that’s what New Zealand needs. Media : It appears that a lot of the Opposition’s energy is put into trying to get a consultation from the Government about what is happening. Are you likely to give another update or consult them on any further decisions? PM : So, firstly, keep in mind I did give a briefing to the Leader of the Opposition last night, and that was, of course, at the point that we were about to announce the significant decision around the change in alert levels. Since then, it’s been about sharing the additional information. Other than the changes in the orders, there hasn’t been particularly anything new beyond that. What I would remind and just add is a point of interest: caretaker provisions, or the idea of caretaker provisions, in New Zealand actually only apply after an election has taken place. Before that, Cabinet has the right and ability to continue to govern, and that is what we are doing. So, yes, I will continue to keep the Opposition informed, I will continue to let them know, because this is a significant health issue—just as I did with Simon Bridges when he was in the role. All I would ask in return is that we continue to see at least some unity in our response here. There should not be politics in this. It’s a resurgence that no one wanted, so let’s work hard together to get on top of it, and then we can get back to the normal resumption of whatever politicking the Opposition would like to engage in at that point. Media : On the subject of the QR codes for the contact tracing register, will there be some way of maintaining a sort of hardcopy, manual contact tracing register for people who don’t have smartphones or, you know, don’t have the technology? PM : Well, yes, and we have asked people to do that already. I mean, people just—of course, actually, the COVID Tracer app itself allows a digital diary manually to be added. But for people who aren’t using a phone, we just ask that they keep a manual entry. So the only thing that’s mandated is a business having to keep the QR code. We’ll need to work through the issue of what if you have customers who are coming in who aren’t using those apps, and that’s the thing that the Minister of Health is talking about. Media : But the onus is no longer on the business to keep a manual—that has now shifted to the individual? PM : Actually, my understanding is the order does have a split on both, which is what we’re having to work through, but at the moment the QR code is primarily where we’re focusing. Media : Dr Bloomfield, what’s the consequences of that oral directive that you gave? If people who went to those businesses don’t choose to self-isolate, what can happen? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : We’re still looking at what enforcement might be necessary. However, it was really just wanting to emphasise the importance as part of our overall efforts, and I’ve now given that as a directive. I’m confident that people will have listened and will self-isolate, recalling that this is in Auckland and it’s alert level 3 anyway. PM : My recollection is you have the ability to put them into quarantine. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, I can require people to go into quarantine, if necessary. PM : Perhaps I’m very quick to go to the penalty regime there. Media : Dr Bloomfield, do you have any more details about the four probable cases? Are we talking adults, kids—what? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : The four probable cases: three adults and one teenager. PM : And, as described, two were in a workplace and two related to the first case. Media : And would you describe them as friends or family—those two related to the first case? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : They are family. Yes, they’re relatives. Media : OK, and then are there any possible cases that you’re looking at beyond those? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not at this stage. PM : Possibles beyond the probables? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, they’re the only—the four that have—and they’re probables because there’s a clear epidemiological link, and they are symptomatic. Media : Dr Bloomfield, we’ve seen some long wait times at testing centres up in Auckland—particularly at Northcote, we’ve had a couple of reports. Some people have even been sent home. Is this because there’s a lack of tests available with the demand? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : There’s not a lack of tests. There’s extra staff, there are extra testing sites, there are going to be even more tomorrow, and there are plenty of consumable swabs and so on. It’s just simply a demand. It’s the same issue that I think the supermarkets have seen as well. So I’d just encourage people to be patient, and also just a reminder: the testing at this point in time is for people with symptoms. PM : Because, ultimately, if you have people who are asymptomatic, they then all have to be processed, and that slows down our chance to check those who might be symptomatic or those who are connected to at-risk places. So it is helpful, if you are waiting in a queue right now and listening on your radio, if you’re not unwell, please do go home, put your feet up—please only visit those testing stations if you’re unwell. Media : And what are those plans to open more centres tomorrow? Can you just elaborate a little bit on that? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I’ve got that information there, on hand— PM : I’ll take another question while I just see whether or not I’ve brought that down with me. Media : Dr Bloomfield, just with that huge demand for tests, has the ministry got a time frame that you want them to be processed in—is there like a target time frame? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, we aim for 24 hours—for them to all be processed within 24 hours. Not everyone will receive the result of their test within 24 hours, except, of course, if it’s a positive result. Those are the ones that are prioritised, and then they’re notified immediately to the public health unit and followed up. But it may take a bit longer than that for an individual to receive a message—a text or something with their own result. But 24 hours is the processing time we aim for, and we move testing volumes around the country should we need to. Media : What would you expect to be the longest that people would actually receive the text message? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I’m not—I can’t predict how long it might take. However, what I can say is that people will know straight away, very quickly, if they have a positive test, because that will be notified and followed up immediately. Media : But in terms of those people that are isolating at home—if they have tests and they’re staying at home because they’ve been told to, they could be at home for, what, a week because of the demand at the moment? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, not—it won’t take that long. PM : Keeping in mind, of course, level 3 restrictions, and also I would encourage anyone in that circumstance to look at the leave support that exists because they have been asked to isolate. I’ll just go over the testing stations, as asked. We have in Auckland—and keeping in mind the closure time for these centres is 6 p.m., although the centres will test people in the queue who are remaining after 6 p.m. Locations include Whānau House, Henderson; Eden Terrace; Northcote; Whānau Ora, Wiri. Pop-up community testing is also being stood up at Health New Lynn, Ōtara Mall—so those are the ones I notified this morning. By this afternoon, the following will be stood up: EastCare, Botany Road; White Cross, St Lukes; Counties Care, Takanini; Waiheke; Shorecare, North Shore Events Centre; and Coast to Coast. By 8 a.m. tomorrow morning, the following will be stood up: White Cross, Henderson; Northcare, Constellation Drive, as well. Media : So are you making any preparations—obviously, there’s a contingency. But are you making preparations to move New Zealand to level 4, or Auckland— PM : Again, we’re being fully transparent here. We are waiting on further information, further testing, to demonstrate where our likely source case is, how likely the spread is from what we see around what we call those index cases. That is what we’ll be basing those decisions on. So that’s why we’ve used these three days. We’ll keep reporting in, and of course we’ll give an advance decision well before midnight Friday. But, at this stage, I’ve seen a lot of speculation. We are going to make an evidence-based decision. At this stage, it’s too early to say. Media : Surely with that possibility, and if Cabinet meets on Friday and then that decision is made to do so, you would have to have made some preparations beforehand. PM : Look, obviously our ability to move to level 3, of course—that has happened because we have all of the resurgence planning that the all-of-Government group has already been doing. So that’s work that, actually, as I said just moments earlier, we started from the day that I stood on this podium when there was a leadership change in the Opposition and reminded people about our resurgence plan; it’s been in play for a long time. Media : What’s the threshold for turning level 3 down, coming to level 2, for instance, in Auckland? Do you need to find the source before you are comfortable with adjusting the alert level, and where have you set— PM : It’s something that we’ve based on, obviously, the advice of the director-general as well. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So in the first instance, our focus is on identifying the extent of the outbreak, and managing and controlling it, followed closely by the source of it, of course, because that will then help inform a decision about whether or not alert level 3 could be relaxed. The key information, as the Prime Minister’s mentioned, around the source will be the genome testing, which is well under way and we’re expecting to have results within about 24 hours. Media : You were smirking a little bit over the Gerry Brownlee “interesting facts” quip. Do you think that they’re being a bit conspiratorial? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Was that to me? Media : Yeah. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Oh, I was just smiling at the thought of the swab I had yesterday. PM : It doesn’t usually bring a smile to most people’s faces! Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I had actually planned to do that a week before, but yesterday was a good opportunity to go up to the clinic out at Ora Toa in Cannons Creek, and, if anyone’s interested, I actually just got the text from Dr Sean Hanna out there to let me know that my swab was negative, so I’m relieved about that. No, I was really just wanting to highlight the work that is happening and has been happening for several months, and also because I have been exhorting people to take the test for weeks, I thought it was only fair, having confessed that I hadn’t had one, that I lead by example. Media : Notwithstanding Gerry Brownlee’s lurch to conspiracy theory or “interesting facts”, if these are extraordinary times that require unity, then why not reach the olive branch out to the Opposition, invite Judith Collins to Cabinet, or at least meet her request for more consultation? PM : Well, firstly, I again just set out that New Zealand, of course, is not in a caretaker mode. That only happens after the election, so Cabinet still has the ability to make these decisions, and these decisions often are having to be made very quickly. But still, in spite of that, they’ve not stopped me from reaching out to the Leader of the Opposition. In fact, I spoke with her prior to me speaking to the full Cabinet. So I think that is a sign that at the point of those big decisions, we are seeking to do that. No further significant decisions have been made today. I will continue to reach out to the Leader of the Opposition, but I would ask at the same time that, actually, we maintain the same relationship that I had with previous Opposition members in the way that we treat, essentially, our response here. It’s not a political matter. It’s in everyone’s interests that we ensure that we stamp COVID out and we do that with very strong health messaging and support of New Zealanders’ actions as our team of 5 million. OK, thank you everyone. Last modified: 17 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with ministers was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 13 August media conference Last modified: 16 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Kia ora koutou katoa; good afternoon. I’ll hand, first of all, to Dr Bloomfield to update you on the latest case and testing numbers, and the roll-out of the Government’s resurgence response plan. After that, I’ll come back with a few reminders of some of the expectations for everyone living in Auckland, and then for the rest of New Zealand, as well as an update on things like road blocks and other operational sides of our resurgence plan. But first, Dr Bloomfield. Thank you, Prime Minister, kia ora koutou katoa. Now, I have quite a bit of information to impart today, and it will take some time, but I do think it’s important it is all covered off as it also includes some specific instructions regarding groups of people who may need to self-isolate. Our priority is to ensure that this virus does not take hold and spread in our communities, and I do want to thank everyone in New Zealand, and especially in Tāmaki Makaurau, for everything they are doing to keep us all safe. Let me be clear here—there is no blame or shame in having COVID-19. The virus is the problem, not people who have contracted it. They did not ask to catch it, and in the same way you never ask to get a cold or flu in the winter. The virus is the problem; people are the solution. So people who have tested positive for the virus to date are all doing the right thing and coming forward to be tested, and we owe them our collective thanks for doing so. It is essential for us to be able to manage this outbreak. First, on the numbers—and just a note, as we did during the earlier lockdown and outbreak period, we will continue to provide updates at 1 p.m. each day. Sometimes the information that we receive on positive cases comes through overnight or in the morning, and these can get reported via media or social media as people become aware of them and take appropriate action. It’s important to note that any positive case, and their close contacts, are isolated and appropriate steps undertaken immediately, including contact tracing. We don’t wait until the announcement at 1 o’clock. So first, in managed isolation, we have one new case to report. This is a woman in her 30s who arrived in New Zealand from the Philippines on 8 August. She has been in managed isolation at the Distinction Hotel in Hamilton, and tested positive at around day three of her stay. Moving now to the community. There are 13 new confirmed cases of COVID-19 to report in the community. They are all in Auckland, and they are all linked to the four people who we reported as confirmed cases yesterday and the day before. We will put the details of these cases up on our website as we have in the past. That means we now have a total of 14 new confirmed cases to report today: the 13 in the community associated with the other community cases already, and the one new one from managed isolation, and that brings our total number of active cases in New Zealand to 36. Seventeen of these are linked to the new outbreak. Given that all these cases are linked, we are treating them as a cluster. What we know about clusters—as we have found out in the past—is that they do continue to grow, so we fully expect there will be further cases. There are some symptomatic people—of course they have been tested, they are in isolation, and all appropriate steps are being taken. We will update you if results come through that confirm those cases on a daily basis. So just a little more detail around the new cases. One that I think we already all know about is a student at Mount Albert Grammar School. This is a relative of the previously announced cases in the community. The school has sent a letter to a number of students and a handful of staff who, after inquiry, were considered as close contacts, advising them to self-isolate for 14 days. All those people have already been spoken with by our national contact tracing service this morning. The student was not symptomatic while at school, and has not been at school since they became unwell and got tested, so the chance of exposure of anyone in the school community to the infection is considered low at this point, but of course we are taking all precautions. And everyone in the whole school community has been asked to monitor their health closely, seek advice from their GP or Healthline if they have symptoms of COVID-19, which could include a new or worsening cough, a sore throat, runny nose, fever, temporary loss of smell, and difficulty breathing. Moving on, three of the people who have tested positive are employees of Americold, the workplace where one of the previously reported cases we know worked. Another seven cases are family members of these employees. Two Americold sites, in Mount Wellington and at Auckland Airport, have been closed. The Mount Wellington one, where the second case worked at, has been closed since Tuesday evening, and the airport site since yesterday. A mobile-testing unit went to the airport site, and all the staff who work there have now been tested. And a mobile-testing unit went to the homes of symptomatic people from the Mount Wellington site yesterday, and they’ve all been tested. And further testing is under way of other employees who work on different shifts at that Mount Wellington site. Moving on, then, another person who has tested positive is an employee of Finance Now—this is the workplace of the very first case that we reported. That person actually was admitted to North Shore Hospital overnight; has now been discharged. And there is another person who has tested positive who is a family member of that Finance Now employee. We also have still one probable case of COVID-19 in the community, and that is also linked to the new outbreak. As part of our overall national response to this new outbreak, I am now directing medical officers of health that all confirmed cases are to be managed in a quarantine facility. Now, this is different to how positive cases were managed when we were last at levels 4 and, indeed, 3, and shows how serious we are about limiting any risk of ongoing transmission, even in self-isolation and including to others in the household. This will apply to any cases, and also close family members who might be at risk, as appropriate. A reminder: these facilities have been set up specifically and have excellent processes and resources in place to look after people with COVID-19, including health staff on site at all times, and it will help us avoid any further inadvertent spread into the community as part of our overall response. On to testing—I will update you now on the testing numbers. Yesterday, our laboratories processed 6,006 tests, and the total number of tests now processed is 508,711. I should say that the total number of swabs collected yesterday was well over 10,000. The cut-off time for reporting is midnight; many thousand have subsequently been reported and the labs are processing those as rapidly as possible. Demand has been high, as you will all know, at our dedicated centres for testing across Auckland, and I want to thank people for being so patient as they waited yesterday, and for showing up. It’s important to know that while we have an increasing number of pop-up testing sites around Auckland, anybody can also be tested at their GP, and this is also free—and this is the same around the whole country. There will be a further two pop-up testing sites open today, in Henderson and at Airport Oaks, so the total number of pop-up and permanent community testing centres will now be 15 across Auckland. The Vaughan Road centre in Rotorua and the Miro Street centre in Taupō have extended their hours. They are now open 9 till 4 p.m., seven days a week. And, likewise, Lakes DHB is setting up a testing centre in Tūrangi, opposite the police station, today and Friday, and a further Rotorua testing centre at Devon Street West’s international stadium will be open today and through the weekend. We are also aware that one of the people who has tested positive has visited an aged residential care facility in the Waikato. I’m not going to name that facility today, because some of the residents and their families are still being informed. However, their public health unit and ministry staff and the facility were planning, last night, about what they needed to do in response. All aged residential care facilities in the country are currently closed to the public; they’re closed to visitors. But anyone who has visited this facility recently will be notified by it and should also closely monitor their health and seek advice if they have concerns. As soon as the residents and families have been notified, we will let you know the name of that facility. I must say that the visit was when the person was not displaying any symptoms, but they did develop symptoms the next day. The visit was to a family member resident, and the visitor saw their family member and had some contact with several staff. I know at least one person who has been tested already has returned a negative test there. And today, the DHB will be arranging testing for all staff and residents in the unit where this visit took place, and, of course, the DHBs working closely with the facility to ensure they have all the personal protective equipment that they need. I want to thank the facility for being both helpful and extremely professional in their response. Now to a further update on Rotorua. I’m going to provide you with what we know about the movements of the family that made the visit to Rotorua. Testing is available to staff of any business—or people who visited any of those businesses—at, or directly after, the times I’m about to read out. So from what we know so far, the family checked into the Wai Ora Lakeside Hotel at 3:30 p.m. on 8 August; we also know they visited the Herbs & Spice Thai Restaurant at 8 p.m. that evening, on the 8 th ; the following day, at around 2:30 p.m., they visited the PAK’nSAVE supermarket at Amohau Street in Rotorua, before heading to the Heritage Farm and 3D Art Gallery at 3:30 that same day—so that’s the 9 August we’re talking about. And at 4 p.m. they then headed to the Skyline gondola and luge. Now, the following morning—and this is important—on the 10 th , that is Monday, they visited Sail Barbary: Eco Sailing in Taupō, so they made a day trip down to Taupō at 10:30; and they, I understand they took a boat trip, and all the people who were on that trip with them have been identified and contacted, and then followed up as close contacts; then the family returned to the Heritage Farm and 3D Art Gallery—this is back in Rotorua—on the 10 th , at 3 o’clock. That evening they visited—at around 7 o’clock—the BurgerFuel, Redwood Centre, in Rotorua; and on their way they had a brief stop in Hamilton, at 9 a.m., for fuel on the Tuesday morning. There’s no sense of any contact with anyone there. I don’t have the direct name—I don’t have the name of the petrol station that they stayed at, but the inference there is that there was no contact with people. Now, for those businesses visited by the family who haven’t been issued yet with an alert through our app, the advice is the same: monitor your health, and if you’re unwell—ring Healthline. Testing is available to any business that requires it, or would like it—employees there—and of course anyone who is symptomatic should take immediate action. Again, reflecting on this, the work that the public health unit has done with this family, aside from the sailing trip—which there were some others on—the sense is that at most there was casual contact with other people at those other places. We know there are other locations they also visited, but it’s important to note: at these locations, we are very confident there was no risk of exposure to anyone—for example, that family members were the only ones at those locations at the time, or they would drive through. I’m nearly there. The app alert—so this morning, for the first time, we have utilised the alert function on the NZ Tracer app, which allows us to send a notification to anyone who has scanned into locations at the same time that we know people who have tested positive for COVID-19 were there. We have issued an exposure alert covering the two separate visits of the family in Rotorua to the Heritage Farm, and also the one visit to the Skyline Gondola. So that alert has gone out to anybody who has the app and had used it to scan in at the times the family was at those facilities. On to QR codes—I’m pleased to see that the app has now recorded 986,000 registered users, an increase of 338,000 in the last 48 hours, and I want to thank everyone who has done that. I understand that there was some slowness for people in downloading the app because of the volume of people who were doing so, and there were some caps in place by the Apple store, and also Google Play—those have now been increased or lifted, so that shouldn’t be a problem now. There’ve been a total of 138,000 posters created now—an increase of 51,000 in the last 48 hours, and the app has now recorded over 2.6 million poster scans, and nearly 450,000 manual entries. And finally, a word on the genome sequencing: we are continuing the genome sequencing investigations—ESR is leading that—and what we know so far is that there has been no exact link made between the genome sequence of the positive swabs in this new cluster with any recent—the genome sequence of any recent case in an MIQ facility. Although, I should say that not all the samples from the MIQ facilities have been able to have been genome sequenced. So at the moment there is no link, but what we do know is that the genome sequence of the new cases—broadly—most closely resembles the pattern from the UK and Australia. That’s all I have; Prime Minister? Thank you, Dr Bloomfield. So, as you can see from the latest update this morning, you can see the seriousness of this situation. While it is serious, it is being dealt with in an urgent but calm and methodical way. As we all learnt from our first experience with COVID, once you identify a cluster, it grows before it slows. We should expect that to be the case here. The fact that we are in level 3 in Auckland is giving us a helping hand. It means that when we are contacting people they, of course, are already observing restrictions that limit the spread of the virus. You will have heard from the update that there is more information we need to find, such as the source or what we generally refer to in a cluster as the index case. We’ve managed to contain clusters before without identifying the source, but knowing where it has started does give us that extra confidence that we have reached everyone we need to in order to stop transmission. So here is what we ask you to do on an ongoing basis and until, of course, the updates that we continue to share. If you live in Auckland, work from home if you can. If you go out, of course it’s for essential items—food, exercise, getting a test if you’re unwell. Whenever you leave your home, we encourage you to wear a face covering, and it’s great to see so many people are observing that advice. There are now 15 special purpose COVID clinics, and I do want to again reemphasise what Dr Bloomfield has said. We have seen congestion at those clinics and I acknowledge people are trying to do the right thing but are getting frustrated by the waits. You can go to your local GP. We do ask if you’re symptomatic to call ahead so they can prepare for you, but you can be tested there for free as well. If you are well, though, if you are in good health and you’ve not been asked, for any reason, to get a test, we ask that you just stay put. It helps us to prioritise the testing. For businesses at level 3 in Auckland, you’ll recall that customers cannot be on your premises except for those key exceptions: supermarkets, dairies, petrol stations, pharmacies, or permitted health services. But for everyone else, of course, we encourage you to use contactless pick-up, click and collect, or delivery services. We saw under level 3 last time that businesses did a great job of adapting to still provide to their customers, and it should be no different this time. For those businesses where people cannot work from home and you are not customer facing, a reminder just to comply with all of those measures that we’ve put in place so you can operate safely, including social distancing. Now, I know this disruption to businesses is putting extraordinary pressure on you, but the best long-term economic response is for us to get this immediate response right. For businesses across the country, a reminder that all must put up in place a QR code for use with the New Zealand COVID Tracer app at each entryway so people can track their movements. You must put up your poster before 19 August to avoid penalties. Many of you have, and I really thank you for doing that. An update on checkpoints: there are 10 checkpoints operating. Police have provided maps and details of the locations on their website and social media pages. I’m told by 7 a.m. roughly 17,000 vehicles had been stopped. Mostly those vehicles were travelling for the right reasons; 312 by 7 a.m. had been turned back. Police are reporting that there have been attempts made by people to travel to their holiday homes. Again, I just reinforce, if your residence is in Auckland we are asking you to stay put. Finally, I acknowledge the anxiety of some New Zealanders as are we are moving at pace to stamp out COVID in our community and protect the health of all New Zealanders, but the pace and the speed should also act as an extra layer of reassurance. Within six hours of this case and notification amongst health officials, we were informing people of the need to move alert levels, and in less than 24 hours Auckland was at level 3. In Hong Kong, Vietnam, and Victoria, which are all managing the re-emergence of COVID, they in some cases waited three to four weeks before implementing restrictions similar to ours. Going hard and early is still the best course of action, and we all have a part to play in that. I’ll say again that as with our first outbreak we do have an expectation that things will get worse before they get better. We’ll all remember that pattern as well, and modelling suggests that we will still see more positive cases. Again, though, at this stage, though—at this stage—heartening to see them in one cluster, which I think is a take-home from this morning. But, once again, we are reminded of how tricky this virus is and how easily it can spread, but we know that limiting people-to-people contact really helps stop the spread. We have a plan, we have acted quickly, and now we’ll continue to roll out that plan. If you have any questions that have not been answered here today, please visit the COVID-19 website. Healthline staff have been increased by an extra 180 people, but they are better help with immediate needs and health needs in particular. As for future updates, there will be a 1 p.m. briefing, again, tomorrow. We will then do an extra briefing later in the afternoon, after Cabinet has convened, to share next steps. We’ll confirm the timing of that extra briefing later on today. Till then, everyone, look after yourselves. Remember: be calm, be kind, and continue to stay strong. Happy to answer questions. Media : Prime Minister, we’re now talking about visits in Auckland, Rotorua, Taupō, and somewhere in the Waikato. Do we need to start thinking about restrictions wider if they’re just Auckland? PM : Actually, I’ll have the director-general answer that question, first of all—because, of course, we do lean on their health advice in these decisions. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Thanks, Prime Minister. At this stage, we don’t think so because what we are finding is that the source of this outbreak and where all our confirmed cases are are in Auckland. We are of course doing the follow-up of those visits, where they occurred around the country. The most recent information today was that the visit to the aged residential care facility in the Waikato and also a trip to Taupō is part of that Rotorua trip. What I would just say is that our experience earlier in the year was that the vast majority—over 95 percent—of cases occur in workplaces and in households, not through casual visits to places. So that’s a very important part of our assessment, and, of course, we dig deeply to find out exactly what it is people did, to identify if there were any close contacts. But at this point in time, it seems very clear the locus of the outbreak is in Auckland. PM : Just on the aged-care facility, because, as you can imagine, we’ve all taken a very, very deep interest in that—again, we do have at least one test that has come back from that facility that has come back negative. Of course more is under way, but that does give us an indication. Obviously, that person, we’ve already identified, was asymptomatic at the time of the visit. Media : Is there any other travel history that you can tell us about those confirmed cases and one probable case in the last 14 days? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not at this point. So all of those new confirmed cases came from testing that was processed last evening. The results came in overnight, and I found out about them first thing this morning. The case investigations and discussions were happening this morning, so I don’t have further information, but, of course, as we get it—and I should point out, even if we don’t provide more detailed information until 1 o’clock tomorrow about any new cases, any pertinent information around the travel histories of those new cases, we will make public of course, if it’s important for people to know. PM : Yeah, Tova. Media : The 13 new cases of—community cases. It seems inevitable now that you’ll need to extend the lockdown restrictions in Auckland. Why not just do that now? PM : You’ll remember that last time we did make sure that we had the latest information available to us before we made any decisions. What I’ll want to make sure is that when we make that decision, we’re able to make an assessment based on, for instance, whether or not we still have cases within a cluster—that will be a very important part of the information provided to Cabinet—or whether or not we see any that we can’t link to that cluster. So I don’t want to, at this stage, venture a view without having the latest information. We will have a significantly larger range of tests from across the community, as well, when we make that decision. We also need to act on the advice of the director-general, and I don’t want him to have to give that advice halfway through, without that full range of tests in place. Tova. Media : So we’re getting a lot of messages from concerned people in the Wellington region saying that they— PM : Ah. Media : —understand that there’s a case here— PM : Oh, we can clarify that. I’ll ask Dr Bloomfield to speak to that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, I’m happy to clarify that. So, actually, I was notified late yesterday about a positive swab result in someone in Wellington who’s part of an ongoing study that’s undertaken by ESR. It was further investigated because it seemed unusual, so there was further testing done today, which has returned negative. So it seems that under investigation, this was a false positive result, so we can reassure people. Media : Just following up on Tova’s first question—so, based on the information we get, really, is that a question then of how long you would extend it, rather than whether you would extend it or not? PM : Again, I don’t want to speculate. I do want to use all the information we have. I want the director-general to have the time to give us considered advice and information, and, again, what we see within the cluster will be critical as well as what we might see, if anything, outside of that. So I won’t pre-empt that. We will make sure that we are giving a decision and guidance well before the midnight deadline we set for ourselves. We will be doing that tomorrow afternoon, so people won’t have to wait too long for us to share some of that decision making. There is a reason why we’re having Cabinet meet daily. We want to do it real time. Media : Are you able to walk us through the rationale behind moving people that have tested positive into a managed quarantine facility rather than having them stay home or in their own managed facility? PM : It’s under the order of the director-general that that’s happening so I’ll let him speak to that. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : A few things here. We’ve given this quite a bit of thought, recalling that last time we started managed isolation and quarantine about halfway through the lockdown period. This time we’re heading in the other direction. So there are two reasons. One is, further to the point I made earlier on, we see most transmission occurs in households, and in fact one of the features of the quarantine facilities is that arrangements are able to be put in place to keep positive and non-positive members of families apart. So it actually helps the risk to other household members of getting infected, because it can be very hard in a household situation. The second thing is, sometimes inadvertently there can be spread, even with the people who are best at self-isolating at home and have got all the facilities and so on. There can be people who might come and visit and these facilities are expressly set up to help minimise any risk of further infection in the community. Since we have them there and they are available, we felt it was best for not just those who test positive and their families but for the community to actually really strengthen our response and potentially, you know, it will inform a decision around whether and/or how long to continue alert levels. Media : Given the fact that the Prime Minister said that this cluster is going to get worse before it gets better, do we have the facilities that will be able to cope with this, with the new people coming in? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : At the moment we’re confident they are, and we’ve been working with the MBIE team on ensuring that there is enough capacity, particularly in the Auckland facility, where, of course, this outbreak is currently centred. Media : And there’ll be hotels again? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Sorry? Media : There’ll be hotels or will there be other forms of accommodation? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : At the moment it’s in the dedicated quarantine facility there, and, again, having visited this facility, there’s incredibly good protocols in place, and in fact there’s a doctor onsite every day as well, who is the one who has managed and looked after every single case that has been in the quarantine facility since the Wuhan flight. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can I just ask you about the Americold cases. Have you had any more updates about the surface swabs? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : What I can say is that actually that swabbing occurred this morning. Because this hasn’t been done before, yesterday we were getting advice from ESR about how to do that and so the public health team is at the site this morning to do both the surface and environmental swabbing as well as other staff members. Media : And when do we get that result. Is it like the others? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Hopefully, later today, yes; it will be processed like the other swabs. PM : I think it’s important for us to add that still a most likely scenario is human to human, but we’re wanting to rule everything out. There’s no suggestion as well that this is about New Zealand – based products, but, of course, we’re being very, very cautious because of a cool-store being involved, because, of course, that can prolong the existence of COVID on a surface. Media : As of last week, the ministry says that 2,672 border workers in Auckland, including hotel staff, have been tested. That’s a fraction or half of the total Auckland workforce. Why were there not stricter, more intensive, testing regimes in place for such a high-risk group? PM : Keep in mind, of course, the numbers that we have yesterday included MIQ staff as well who are on a regular rotation for testing. If you work in our primary quarantine, you are tested weekly. If you work outside of that, it’s a slightly longer rotation but still frequent. But I’ll hand over to Dr Bloomfield. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yeah, two comments there. One is we are scaling up the testing, as you can imagine, with 32 MIQ facilities. The priority there, of course, is to do the day three and day 12 testing of all the residents. We focused first on those working in the quarantine facilities, who are at arguably higher risk because we know there are confirmed cases there. So we’re moving into weekly testing, and then we were testing other staff. So it was in the process of being scaled up, including at the airports, and, of course, we have also been adding in our maritime ports as well. Media : And is it possible that this community outbreak occurred because the testing of border and hotel staff was only happening every two to three weeks, and on a voluntary basis? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, I’ll just reiterate the point I made yesterday that the testing of staff is an adjunct to the most important thing, which is very strict infection and control procedures, and very strict protocols around this. And, again, having visited three of these facilities, you can see the extent to which those are taken seriously by not just the staff who are seconded there but also the hotel staff themselves. And that’s the mainstay of avoiding any infection of staff members. The testing was another layer, just as we added in the testing of all the residents in those facilities over the last six weeks. Media : Is it now compulsory for border and hotel workers to have— PM : We are requiring staff at our borders to be tested in this round of testing. Also important to remember that alongside those protocols that are spoken about in our managed isolation facilities, we also had health orders that apply to our maritime borders that oblige those who have been at sea for particular periods of time—because they are often, and their expertise are required for the loading and unloading of freight—there are requirements around them for social distancing and whether or not they can even disembark into some parts of the port. So, regardless, alongside testing regimes, protocols existed to try and manage those risks as well. We do have a testing station set up at the port in Auckland, and we are testing port workers as well at present. I’ll just come to you, actually. You had your hand up before Derek. Media : I was just going to ask has there been any reluctance or pushback from those who have tested positive about being moved into quarantine and family members who haven’t tested positive for— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Actually, I think there was some reservation initially, but having spoken with the public health unit again today, everyone’s quite comfortable about this, and I think that’s proceeding, and it’s being facilitated. Again, there are benefits for the cases and their families, quite clearly, and they see the benefits for the wider community. So at the moment there hasn’t been particular pushback. Media : And how is that actually run? Is it similar to the sort of pick-ups done at airports and taken? How do you actually— Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yeah, there’ll be a proper process—the same process we use when we move people between a managed isolation facility who might test positive and they’re taken to the quarantine facilities. So there’s a very well established process. Or if they’re symptomatic at the airport on arrival, and they’re transferred to the quarantine facility—so we’ll use the same infection prevention control processes. Media : Prime Minister, while the source of the infection remains unclear, is there any prospect whatsoever of regions other than Auckland having restrictions eased from Friday night from level 2 to level 1? PM : Well, look, and those are things that we’ll need to consider, but while we’re in a heightened state of alert, I’m sure the public will understand and New Zealanders will understand why that vigilance continues to be important. We can see that as we undergo interviews, sometimes we do have people travelling into other areas, and whilst we’re able to, at the moment, really quickly contact trace that and isolate that and therefore keep the restrictions imposed to a limited reach, that extra layer of vigilance is very helpful for us at this stage. Media : Sounds like you’re really wanting to prepare people for an extension of level 2 measures. PM : Oh, look, I think people understand why we, nationally, are at level 2, because they can see that that vigilance right now while we’re in this heightened state and are continuing to do this work—I think they’ll see and understand why that’s necessary. Yeah, in the front. Media : Dr Bloomfield, with no direct connection with the quarantine cases, can you tell me what your sort of working theories as to how these cases arose are the moment? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : At the moment we haven’t established a direct connection, but as we find each case, and, of course, do that thorough interview and investigation back, that will help. The other point I would make is that we don’t have genome sequencing on every positive sample from people who were recently in managed isolation or quarantine, because some of the samples simply didn’t have DNA material and couldn’t be sequenced. So— Media : So you think you’ll find a connection to the border there sooner or later? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Look, it’s most likely, and it could be at a managed isolation and quarantine facility, it could be at the airport, or it could be at a maritime port. So for example, we have testing at Ports of Auckland today to test all the port workers and other staff like Customs and MPI staff there as well. We’re putting the pieces of the puzzle together. PM : I think at this point it’s very difficult to rule in or out. Genome sequencing really helps us, and, of course, at the moment you’ll see that we’ve got a connection to particular international sources, potentially. But at the moment there’s still some unanswered questions which we are chasing all those leads. Media : I guess in this vacuum, this sort of theory about cold storage has come to the surface more. I mean, can you talk about the likelihood of that a little bit more? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I still think, and I think the Prime Minister said this early on, it’s unlikely. Almost certainly—you know, the most likely explanation is person to person transmission or, more fleeting, fomite transmission—an infected surface somewhere and the person, the index case, has picked up the virus from there. But we’re wanting to rule out the cool-store link. PM : Keep in mind, cool-stores have proven around the world—anywhere you’re in a cold environment, people have noticed that meatworks often have been listed as the environment that really does make that transmission very effective and very problematic. Media : We’re hearing a lot of confusion from businesses in Auckland as to who can and can’t open and that they’re losing revenue because of this. Do you have a response to that, and are you able to clarify which ones can? PM : Well, it’s exactly, exactly, the same as it was the last time we were in level 3. If anyone has particular questions, there are dedicated staff at MBIE who are able to work through any issues that might have arisen. There may be cases where people see, you know, their competitors open and they’re not. That may well be that someone’s not quite following the rules appropriately. So I do encourage them to contact MBIE, who can resolve that straight away. I’ll just let you finish that question. Media : We’ve also seen an anti-lockdown protest in Whangārei this morning. Are you concerned about the amount of misinformation that’s been hurled around the whole of New Zealand at the moment? PM : Well, you know, I think probably in any circumstances, misinformation is concerning. I do think, though, the vast majority of New Zealanders absolutely understand why we’re taking the measures that we are. The whole intent is for us to limit the amount of time that anyone has restrictions on them and limit the amount of time that anyone has their freedoms limited. The whole goal is to get us back to normal as quickly as we can. I do still ask people: use the COVID-19 website. Listen to our experts like Dr Bloomfield. They’re the ones who really know and understand this virus, and they’re trusted sources of information. Media : Can you get a breakdown of how many people have been tested in Rotorua and whether staff members at those particular sites have been tested yet? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Look, I don’t have that information with me, but someone here will take that note and we’ll include that information in our update or as soon as we can. Media : On that question of misinformation, I mean, what is the Government doing? What can it do to tackle that, and how might that effect the health response if there is these sort of conspiracy theories proliferating on social media and other platforms? PM : It’s not new. Some of those conspiracy theories around COVID-19 not being real have existed from the very beginning of COVID-19’s emergence globally. Some of them are perpetuated by offshore sources. You see some of the people spreading that misinformation are from outside of New Zealand. What I would say is that, you know, I’ve seen reports of people overseas who have viewed COVID-19 as being fake who have lost their lives to it, and so that’s the evidence—the global situation is the evidence—that this is very, very real and we need to take it seriously. And, if you’re someone that views politicians suspiciously, then, please, by all means, listen to the independent doctors, scientists—those who are our source of advice that we lean on. Media : Dr Bloomfield, there has been—with all the reports of hours’ long waits, kilometres of waiting to get the tests—any thought given to take-home tests? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No—not to take-home tests, no. We still know that the best test—and, in fact, the only one, really, available here that is accurate enough—is the PCR test, and that requires the throat and a nasopharyngeal swab. Yes, so I guess there was a lot of demand for tests yesterday, and not just in Auckland, and hence the queue. I know that they’re trying to process people through as quickly as possible. It does take some time to have that done. But, again, just pointing people to—you can go to your GP. Ring ahead if you’ve got symptoms—which you should have if you’re going for a test, unless you’ve been instructed otherwise. And so there are a lot of places people can get tested, and, again, thanks for the patience so far. Media : And has there been any thought given to pool testing outside of Auckland in particular, just to— PM : Speed it up? Media : —kind of give a check-up on the country. PM : Yes is the answer. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes. PM : Of course, just to explain that process of pool testing, that’s when you bulk test a batch. It works well when you’ve got a really low percentage of positives, because, if you do get a positive in that batch, you then have to go back and do them individually. But, yes: we have the capacity to do pool testing. One of the issues is making sure that you’ve got those low rates in those areas where you’re using it. On the take-home tests, I know some countries have used them. But, of course, anyone who’s had a test—you, of course, have to put it quite far back into your nose, and so the idea that someone would do that accurately—obviously that’s one of the things that’s borne into question. Media : So is the plan to [inaudible] though? PM : We’ve already got that capacity. I haven’t asked the question of whether or not our testing at the moment, Dr Bloomfield, are already using pooling, but it is something that we have the ability to do. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : It’s something that we can use as part of our capacity if we need to. My sense is that in the testing done yesterday and being done today, they’re not pooling at the moment, but it’s something we can do. PM : One last quick point: for people who are queueing up, it’s not the test that’s taking time; it’s getting your details, so having your NHI number can speed things up considerably. If you don’t have it, you might want to consider using your GP as an option instead, because they will have it on hand. So that’s causing some of the slowness. Media : Prime Minister, have you seen any fresh modelling around this cluster, and what are you expecting it to do? PM : So I’ve had readouts, potentially, and so it’s very, very difficult at this stage to assess its growth, but, of course, as you can expect, the modelling suggests that a cluster like this will grow. You’ll remember that last time some of our clusters—you know, they got up into the 80s and 90s, with some of them. The advantage we have here is the fact that we already have level 3 restrictions; we are moving very, very quickly; we’re dealing with one rather than multiples; but we are expecting growth. So I do think it’s important we prepare people for that, because it’s not a sign that it’s escalating beyond our capacity; it’s just the behaviour of clusters. Media : Prime Minister, several manufacturing groups are concerned that officials appear to be ready to apply the same essential industries categorisation that was used in the last lockdown. Is that correct, because I understand it was going to be raised at Cabinet today, and in June that work was under review. So what is the Government’s thinking on that? PM : So two different issues there. So the question you’ve asked is about whether or not we’re changing the essential service listing—that’s for level 4, and we’re not in level 4. So, obviously, at level 3 there’s a much wider range of individuals who can operate, but albeit making sure that they’re not customer facing and applying safety protocols for their operations. So, obviously, at level 3 some of those questions aren’t an issue. MBIE are, however, continuing to—we have asked them to do that work, to go out and reach out to particular sectors about the way we’ve applied those alert level standards. Media : Prime Minister, is there any indication that there may have been some kind of super-spreader event like a wedding or a church service, and, Dr Bloomfield, could you also talk a bit about how long this may have been in the community before we caught it? PM : So nothing at this stage. I think we may have spoken yesterday about the first case that, really, we’ve identified, which actually spent the vast bulk of that time in self-isolation. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : That’s correct, Prime Minister. And, yes, I think both Michael Baker and Shaun Hendy have talked about the possibility—and this goes to what’s the total number of cases that could be out there already; somewhere between 25 and 100, I think, by Shaun Hendy’s modelling. I don’t disagree with him. You know, we’ve found a case and we’re working backwards and outwards, and the key thing here is to find the extent of this outbreak and ring-fence it, and having alert level 3 in place at the moment is incredibly helpful for us being able to ring-fence it. Media : So it is possible that there may have been a super-spreader event? And then also, sorry, just the follow-up: how many weeks may COVID have been in the community? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, if you think about the infectious period, and if we look at our cases, at the moment the earliest time that one of them displayed symptoms was on 31 July. It does imply it could have been several weeks ago that the very first case was in the community. No evidence yet of any super-spreading event. PM : Yeah. So 31 July—my recollection from the case notes on that is that they spent the vast bulk of that unwell and at home thereafter. Media : We’ve had complaints of companies price gouging masks and hand sanitiser— PM : Ah, so we have added them to PriceWatch—Minister Faafoi immediately moved on that. So I would be very surprised if that was happening in some of our supermarkets, because some of them are getting their supply from Government. We released 2 million masks into Countdown. I’ll make sure that we release information around that PriceWatch details and the email address we’re using, which—forgive me—after several months I can’t remember off the top of my head, but we are asking people: report in if you’re seeing any of that. We are keeping a very close eye on it. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can we get an update on the time frame, please—we’ve had reports that the index case was put under observation earlier than perhaps has been litigated. So when was the index case put under observation by health officials, and also when was the Rotorua hotel that the COVID-positive family stayed at—when were they told first that the family had stayed there? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : So on the first one, the indexed case who we announced on Tuesday had been tested the day before, and like anyone who has got symptoms and/or returns a positive result, we asked them to—where we think there’s a high index of suspicion, we ask them to self-isolate. So there was no longer period. They had been tested on the Monday by a GP, and then they got the result, or we got the result, on mid-afternoon Tuesday. In terms of the hotel, I don’t know exactly when they were spoken with, but I can find that out. Media : So there were no symptoms—there was no chance that that person was told by officials to stay home or to be watched earlier than after that test? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Not as far as I’m aware. Not officially, and my understanding is the person went and got tested on the Monday. He was rightly swabbed by the GP, and then as soon as that positive result came in on the Tuesday, everything sprang into action. Media : Can you clarify for us: in this round of testing, how many of those 6,000 or 7,000 MIQ and border workers have been tested, and will you have that information—will those test results be in front of you on Friday when you give your advice about whether to extend lockdown? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Yes, so there was a lot of testing done yesterday, but one of the things we have been doing is breaking down the testing from what’s in the community, people who are guests in managed isolation or quarantine facilities, workers in managed isolation and quarantine, and also at the border. So we will have a full breakdown of those results. I don’t have them with me, but we will want to have tested at least, by this time tomorrow, a very good proportion of the managed isolation and quarantine workforce as well as— PM : And we need both, and advice from Health is we need both. We need to know what’s happening at our border, but we also need to have a good sense of whether or not we have anything further amongst the community outside the cluster. So we do need to get a picture of both. Media : Just back on the price gouging of masks, we’ve been sent a receipt that one store has raised the price from $7.99 for a pack of 10 to $14.99 for a pack of 10. What is your message to them? PM : My message is exactly the same as it was the first time New Zealand experienced restrictions on movements and the need for really critical items: fairness. You know, we’re asking people not to try and capitalise on the situation New Zealand is in. My message also to consumers is that you don’t have to have a surgical face mask. A face covering that you perhaps fashion yourself is adequate. We are actually looking, through the advice of Health, to distribute some information of the kind of face coverings, if you’re using your own, that are going to do the job, just so that people don’t have to rely on purchasing something that might be financially out of their reach. Media : Back on the border testing, figures that we have show about 60 percent of the border workforce have not had a test. That’s a massive failure, isn’t it? PM : You’d have to tell me where you’re getting those numbers from. Media : I think from the ministry. PM : Again, as we’ve said, we are working through testing all our border staff as we speak. We’ve given ourselves a period of time to make sure we get through that. There are 6,000 to 7,000 individuals that we’re needing to test. Of course, we’re looking at ports, at the aviation level, at all our MIQ facilities, plus doing a good sample amongst the community. So we need to do that over the next three days. Media : Shouldn’t that be the highest priority, though? Because, I mean, that really—testing of those workers might indicate the source, right? So shouldn’t we have them being tested as a priority and have all those results in front of you by tomorrow afternoon? PM : They are a priority. Testing MIQ staff are a priority too, and testing symptomatic individuals in the community to get a sense of whether or not it has spread further is also a priority. We’re working on each, which is why I would say that while we’re setting up specific testing stations at our borders to try and pick up our border staff, I would ask people who more broadly in the community are not symptomatic to stay home. Media : I understand that, but don’t you want to have a sense of—or shouldn’t you know the proportion of those 6,000 or 7,000 workers that have been tested? If that’s such a priority, how come you don’t know? PM : Because you’re asking about multiple facilities at our MIQ stations as well, as well as our border staff. We’ve just said that we’re happy to break down those numbers as well. Media : Do you not think that the testing— PM : Keeping in mind they’re tested, they’re then put in—they’re processed in different places, so we need to collate that. Media : Yeah, but I just think—would it be such a priority that you know how many have been tested, how many need to go, and we need to get them all tested— PM : Yeah, and we absolutely do and we are. We’re happy to provide that breakdown. Media : Given the importance of this group, the MIQ workers, would it not have been wise or do you wish now that there was more robust testing of them a week or more ago? PM : There was testing at the border, and there has been testing at the border all the way through, and so, obviously, that has not picked anything up at the border. We’re going back in and testing everyone again. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I just had one other point to add, Prime Minister. MIQ staff and border staff also have health checks every day they turn up to work, and they have to pass that, and I can tell you going into an MIQ facility you have to declare if you’ve got any symptoms, you get a temperature check, and so all staff working in those facilities have that. That has been—again, just to reiterate—augmented with the testing that we were rolling out across 32 facilities around the country, plus then also adding in ports. So that was scaling up. Media : So can I just be clear: you were comfortable where that was at? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : I was keen to see it, as I know the Prime Minister and others were, rolled out as quickly as it could as yet another layer of our protection at the border, remembering that we have had the arrangements in place since the middle of April at the border around MIQ, and, of course, our border workforce have been working really well understanding what the protocols are, including that protocol of the wellness check when they turn up to work. PM : Just a warning everyone, we’re just going to take the last couple of questions. Media : Just on behalf of Ben, the sentencing of the Christchurch terrorist is due to take place in just under two weeks. Are you worried about the impact level 2 restrictions, if they’re still in place, may have on the ability of survivors as well as family members to attend, given, under level 2, fewer people allowed in court, and more than 50 people have made the journey from overseas just to be here for— PM : Yes, and of course what we need to ensure is their ability to share victim impact statements. But we, of course, already had some limitations around the numbers who are able to participate and, just as we’re already working through ways to accommodate those numbers, as it were, and I expect what they’ll continue to do is come up with contingency that allows those making statements to be present and their family members and then others to be involved, be it through video link in and other forms of technology. So they’ll be working through that, but they already had some contingencies, I understand, in place. Jenna. Media : Just in terms of testing centres in Rotorua, people are waiting hours and hours for a test there. Can you just confirm how many testing stations you’ve got there and whether there’s any plans to bring on more? PM : Yes, there were. Dr Bloomfield outlined a couple at the beginning, so I’ll let him refer back to his notes. Dr Ashley Bloomfield I think they—my recollection is they were extending hours of the testing centres, and, again, a reminder to people in Rotorua and around the country, including in Auckland, any GP can also test you as well, so it doesn’t need to be at a testing centre. PM : Again, I will just restate: it is free at your GP. I know people are probably worried about the cost. It’s free; it also is quite quick because your NHI details will be on hand with your GP as well. Media : Dr Bloomfield, can you clarify the timeline of when you found about the family going to Taupō and why we only found out today? I mean, are you happy with how long it’s taken for these details to come out, given that we know that businesses are on edge? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : Well, two comments. The first is I found out when I was briefed late morning today with the further detail of where they had been on that trip to Rotorua and the addition of Taupō. And just going back to my very first comments, as soon as something is known about, the public health unit and our national contact tracing centre act immediately to identify who might’ve been a close or a casual contact and get in touch with those people and get them into isolation. That’s the very most important step is the getting people into isolation, then the follow-up interview happens, and then the testing happens if indicated. So this is part of an ongoing process, and, again, I think one of the things that it also emphasises is the value of the app in keeping a record of where one has been in the last 14 days. It’s very hard to remember even everywhere you went the day before, so yesterday, let along two weeks back. Media : And on those Americold employees, do you know any more details about them? Like we’ve heard that there might be drivers who’ve visited several locations. Dr Ashley Bloomfield : What I can say is the information I have is that the ones who are positive from the Mount Wellington site only work there. PM : OK, last question. Media : Dr Bloomfield, someone who spoke to Healthline on Friday to talk about possibly getting a COVID test was asked if she’d visited certain suburbs in South Auckland. Have those suburbs always been, sort of, on a watch-list for high risk given their proximity to the airport? Is there any reason behind that screening? Dr Ashley Bloomfield : No, no, I don’t have any explanation for why that would have been asked. PM : We have always been conscious of having COVID testing stations in the areas where we’ve got MIQ, but that makes sense because, obviously, that’s where staff are in proximity and the like. OK, thank you, everyone. Last modified: 17 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the Prime Minister's 5:30pm media conference [PDF, 275 KB] (external link) The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 14 August 1pm media conference [PDF, 194 KB] (external link) Last modified: 16 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 15 August media conference (external link) Last modified: 16 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 16 August media conference [PDF, 187 KB] (external link) Last modified: 16 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected. Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 17 August media conference [PDF, 160 KB] (external link) Last modified: 17 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference was at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 18 August media conference [PDF, 201 KB] (external link) Last modified: 18 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm. Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference started at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 19 August media conference [PDF, 280 KB] (external link) Last modified: 19 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was at 1pm. Speakers: Last modified: 2 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 20 August media conference [PDF, 203 KB] (external link) Last modified: 20 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference was at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 21 August media conference [PDF, 119KB] (external link) Last modified: 21 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 3pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference. Last modified: 24 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 26 August media conference [PDF, 183KB] (external link) Last modified: 26 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of 27 August media conference [PDF, 190KB] (external link) Last modified: 27 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 28 August media conference [PDF, 190KB] (external link) Last modified: 28 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference.  Last modified: 3 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the live stream of the media conference here. Transcript of the 30 August media conference [PDF, 181KB] (external link) Last modified: 1 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Last modified: 31 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Last modified: 4 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers:  Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The COVID-19 media conference was at 1pm. Speakers: Transcript of the 25 August media conference [PDF, 179KB] (external link) Last modified: 25 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The man in his 50s was part of the current community cluster in Auckland and died earlier today. The man was a confirmed case of COVID-19. He was admitted to Middlemore as an inpatient via ED from quarantine and then cared for in the ICU. His family were regularly updated, the hospital facilitated contact using virtual technologies and his wife and son were able to visit him, using full PPE. His wife has expressed the family’s gratitude to the Middlemore Hospital staff for their care and compassion. This means the number of COVID-19 related deaths in New Zealand is now 23. Counties Manukau Health has acknowledged this, the DHB’s first COVID-19 related death, with the following mihi. Kua riromai teetahi ika pounamu o te wao nui a Taane.  E tangi ana, haaere, Whakangaro atu ra, Ki te Kaakaarauri oki oki Last modified: 4 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database. Last modified: 6 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Last modified: 21 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. "Because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public, with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. I require the following people to do 2 things. This direction applies to the following people: If you need advice accessing financial assistance while you have been directed to isolate at home you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009." Given at Wellington at 1pm Wednesday 12 August 2020 Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director-General of Health Last modified: 12 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. Even if you don’t want to use the app, we encourage you to use another method that works for you. You can use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet to keep track of where you've been and who you’ve seen. If you use the booklet, you should still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Email the COVID-19 Response team if you'd like some booklets. We've also put downloadable files on this page so you can print them at home. Email Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last you around 1 month. The booklet comes in a pack of 10, so you can keep track of where you’ve been for 10 months. The booklet is available in English, with more languages coming soon. Ask your friends or whānau who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app to order some booklets, or share the ones you have and go and order some more for yourself. If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, please order and distribute to your communities. Last modified: 2 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Jury trials will resume in the Auckland High Court, Auckland District Court and Manukau District Court from Monday 7 September. Jurors’ health and safety is of the utmost importance when attending court, and all courts in New Zealand have arrangements in place to keep people safe in the courthouse at Alert Level 2. These arrangements include using hand sanitiser, maintaining physical distance, increased cleaning of courthouses and thermal scanning to check people’s temperature when they enter. Extra protections in Auckland courthouses include wearing face coverings and Perspex screens in jury boxes. People who have been summoned for jury duty in Auckland should attend as planned from Monday. Last modified: 3 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb. Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: Health responses include: “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has announced that New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2. Extra restrictions will continue in the Auckland region for gatherings, funerals and tangihanga. The Alert Levels will next be reviewed on Monday 14 September. If the restrictions do change, this will happen at 11:59pm on Wednesday 16 September. Advice and guidance on life at Alert Level 2 Last modified: 4 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1 Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The five extra days will provide a greater degree of security that we don’t allow further spread by moving Alert Levels too soon. We are taking a fact-based approach and basing our strategy on the view of medical and scientific experts. The current outbreak of community transmission is the biggest we have experienced so far, involving workplaces, churches and public transport. These are everyday activities undertaken in some part by all New Zealanders. If there is no significant change in the cluster’s growth and trajectory, from 11:59pm on Sunday 30 August 2020 the Auckland region will move down to Alert Level 2 with some additional restrictions on gathering sizes. That means schools and workplaces will reopen in Auckland next week. These settings will be in place for 1 week, and will be reviewed again before Sunday 6 September 2020. After 30 August, the Auckland checkpoints will go, and inter-regional travel will be possible again. This brings the risk of Aucklanders who may be infected spreading the virus to other parts of the country, or visitors to Auckland picking up the virus and taking it home. Therefore, we are asking those in Auckland in particular to exercise common sense and caution. Don’t travel just because you can. If you do travel, take precautions. At Alert Level 2 in Auckland gatherings will continue to be limited to 10 people. Funerals and tangihana will be limited to 50 people, and have to meet other conditions set by the Ministry of Health. Outside Auckland, gatherings such as church services and social events will continue to be limited to 100 people. From 11.59pm on 30 August New Zealanders will have to wear a mask or face covering on buses, trains, ferries, and planes. Recent Auckland cases demonstrate that transmissions can occur on public transport, so we have chosen to take a precautionary approach. We continue to generally encourage physical distancing in addition to requiring face coverings. Wear a face covering, follow the directions of drivers and sit where the stickers and posters on-board tell you to. The display of QR codes will be mandatory for businesses and other venues at all Alert Levels. A separate QR poster is needed for each unique location. Each location must display their poster in either a prominent place or near main entrances. Get your QR code poster Last modified: 24 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Auckland moved to Alert Level 3 at 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August. Restrictions for Auckland at Alert Level 3 The rest of New Zealand will move to Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2 Last modified: 12 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The latest surge in New Zealanders downloading the NZ COVID Tracer app has taken it over the 1 million mark of registered users. Keep track of where you've been The NZ COVID Tracer app gives us a strong head start in responding. It is not enough to rely on your memory or personal records. All businesses will need to display a QR code for the NZ COVID Trader app by 11:59am on 19 August. It is easy for businesses to download a QR code for their business using a fast new process. Get your QR code  Last modified: 16 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery.  We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.  Last modified: 9 June 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB] Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said. Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest information on managed isolation charges The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. Last modified: 10 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. A 2-week COVID-19 Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available nationally for employers, including self-employed people, who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19 and changes to COVID Alert Levels. The new scheme will be available for 2 weeks from 1 September, when the existing Wage Subsidy Extension scheme expires. The criteria will be similar to the existing Wage Subsidy Extension — businesses must have had, or are predicting to have, a revenue drop due to COVID-19 of at least 40%. The revenue drop applies for any consecutive period of at least 14 days between 12 August and 10 September, compared to a similar period last year. Applications for the updated Wage Subsidy Scheme will be open by Friday 21 August. More information about the COVID-19 Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) Last modified: 17 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health has confirmed that the former Prime Minister of the Cook Islands Dr Joseph Williams QSO passed away last night in Auckland City Hospital. Dr Williams, who was in his 80s, was also a widely regarded member of health services in both New Zealand and the Cook Islands.  He was patron of the Pasifika Medical Association. Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield described him as a well-known politician, physician and published author. “Dr Williams was seen as a leading figure in the Cook Islands medical community and he will be sadly missed.” Dr Williams was admitted to Auckland City Hospital on 13 August and passed away yesterday evening. “Our thoughts are with his family and community at this time of loss and grief. “Today’s sad news again reinforces the importance of our shared vigilance against COVID-19, the very serious consequences the virus can carry with it, and the measures we all need to take to stop the spread, break any chain of transmission and prevent deaths.” This means the number of COVID-19 related deaths in New Zealand is now 24. Last modified: 5 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date. Last modified: 10 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made. Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last modified: 7 September 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Immigration NZ has the most up to date information on the border exception criteria and process (external link) Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Managed Isolation and Quarantine (external link) Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. Advice on staying healthy Looking after mental wellbeing (external link) Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice. Last modified: 10 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Government has set aside extra funding so we can access a COVID-19 vaccine once it becomes available. The amount set aside cannot be disclosed as it is commercially sensitive. This funding means New Zealand can secure access to promising vaccine candidates, and join the COVAX Facility. This facility’s aim is to speed up development and manufacture of COVID-19 vaccines and to guarantee fair and equitable access to every country. Our vaccine strategy to date has included supporting vaccine research that contributes to global efforts, developing our ability to manufacture vaccines and using purchasing arrangements to help ensure we can get a supply of vaccines when they are available. Last modified: 28 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks Last modified: 6 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link) Last modified: 28 July 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. There is no media conference scheduled for Monday 7 September. Displaying 11-20 of 65 updates 31 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 30 Aug 2020 As of 11:59pm on Sunday 30 August 2020 all of New Zealand is at COVID-19 Alert Level 2. 30 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 28 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 27 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 27 Aug 2020 The Government has set aside extra funding so we can access a COVID-19 vaccine once it becomes available. 26 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 25 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. There is no media conference scheduled for Monday 7 September. Displaying 21-30 of 65 updates 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using it today From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. There is no media conference scheduled for Monday 7 September. Displaying 31-40 of 65 updates 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020  12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. There is no media conference scheduled for Monday 7 September. Displaying 41-50 of 65 updates 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. There is no media conference scheduled for Monday 7 September. Displaying 51-60 of 65 updates 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. There is no media conference scheduled for Monday 7 September. Displaying 61-65 of 65 updates 10 Jun 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. From 10 August 2020 updates about managed isolation and quarantine have moved to the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last modified: 11 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 26 June, with some additional relevant material from up to 7 July. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Last modified: 15 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. This release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 26 June, with some additional relevant material from up to 7 July. Where a final decision has been made after 26 June this will be released in a further update. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: In addition to the documents released, the Government has made a number of other key pieces of information relating COVID-19 available: Last modified: 26 June 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Last modified: 26 June 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Beware of misinformation on social media and other sources. Only share information from official sources. Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the virus. You can always find find accurate and timely information on our website and through our social channels. Social media and newsletters Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices; however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it legally must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) Last modified: 13 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. Get your QR code poster All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location. This came into effect at 11:59am Wednesday 19 August 2020. When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display a poster encouraging people to download the NZ COVID Tracer app: You can also view this content as web pages. How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering You might find it useful to display these posters in your place of business. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Your business legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Alternative contact tracing systems Last modified: 27 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Follow us on social media: Sign up to the latest updates (external link) Last modified: 27 August 2020
New Zealand is at Alert Level 2, with extra restrictions in Auckland. Current restrictions New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. Advice on international travel and what happens when you arrive back in NZ, and information on travel visas. Health and wellbeing information including how to access healthcare, mental wellbeing, family and sexual violence prevention and advice for people at risk. Advice and support for businesses and employees, including what to do if you are experiencing financial distress. Find guidance on everyday activities — including life at home and going to events. Find the latest news, legal documents, government helplines, and other resources. Ngā tohutohu Reo Māori. The Māori Language Commission has published a list of words to support translators and others who are fighting COVID-19 and communicating in te reo Māori. Māori terminology for COVID-19 (external link) We’re working on translating information. We’ll have that information here as soon as possible.