Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Report your test result and tell the people you live with. They will also need to isolate and test on Day 3 and Day 7. What you need to know Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Find out how to get an updated My Vaccine Pass, your My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Face masks protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting New Zealand. We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find information about the history of the COVID-19 Alert System, Independent Advisory Groups, legislation and key documents. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Unite against COVID-19 has evolved to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey and response to COVID-19. Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. It is evolving to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey based on the concept of "He waka eke noa — we are all in this together." COVID-19 was a storm that had been raging across the world and eventually made its way to Aotearoa. This pūrorohū threatened our lifestyle, businesses and our very lives. We knew the only way we could survive was to shelter and wait for it to pass. So, we dropped anchor and took shelter, and focused on keeping people safe. Each time it threatened us we would do this and wait for it to pass. But, over time it has become apparent to us all that our weather has changed and this storm is now part of our new reality. Our strength has always been in our sail. Our raranga is made strong by the threads working together. Over the past year we have added new threads to our raranga that have further strengthened our sail, so that we can now continue our journey. We can seek out new horizons with the confidence of knowing that if we hit some bad weather again, our navigation skills and the strength of our sail will carry us through to calmer waters. Working collaboratively with Māori designers and communication experts, our new sail motif reflects the journey we are on and is now woven through our designs and advertising. From this, a distinctive Aotearoa feel flows through our elements. Our colour palette is influenced by the colours of the kererū. The taonga pūoro you now hear woven into the sting at the start of our audio advertisements represent the contemporary sounds of Aotearoa. These are New Zealand's sounds and voices. Taonga pūoro are considered an important medicine in healing. They are used as rongoā (medicine) for both mental health and physical ailments. Our taonga pūoro is recorded by musician Reti Hedley, Ngā Puhi, Ngāti Tūwharetoa. Our yellow stripes and Alert Level campaign helped us shelter from the stormy weather, while reassuring New Zealanders we could get through together. Aotearoa is still navigating its journey with COVID-19, but, together we can continue to trust in the strength of our sail. Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 11:37 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community.  At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2.  The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm.  Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021.   A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 12:08 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by a diverse range of perspectives, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet has convened the Community Panel. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The purpose of the group is to provide advice to the Minister for the COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. The Group could: Terms of Reference define the purpose and scope for the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] Documents from COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group are proactively released to the public. Proactive releases The group has proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Read the latest reports Last updated: 30 July 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review and Improvement and Advice Group (CICRIAG) has conducted a review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak. They have proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. A number of agencies have already begun their own work to consolidate recommendations from a range of reviews. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group are coordinating with agencies to build a complete system-view of these recommendations and progress against recommended improvements. A full stocktake of recommendations has been undertaken, along with the status of those recommendations.  Accountabilities for recommendations will sit with appropriate agencies, and progress will be monitored by the COVID-19 Group. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Recommendations have been grouped into themes to provide reporting on the system trends. 10 themes have been workshopped and developed by a group of representatives from key agencies/groups involved across the COVID-19 Response system. These themes are: Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Community Panel was established in July 2021 by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to provide insights across the COVID-19 system direct from communities. The Panel brings lived experiences and deep community ties to provide a diverse range of perspectives on different aspects of the COVID-19 response and to help ensure issues such as equity are addressed. The Panel members represent communities such as rural, youth/aged, disabled, Māori, Pacific, LGBTQ+ and other ethnic groups. Their expertise will help shape the medium- to long-term COVID-19 strategy. Members were chosen after consultation with other government agencies to ensure strong cross-agency collaboration.  The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Community Panel. Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB]  When information is proactively released about the Community Panel, it will be available on this page. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 10:48 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The purpose of the group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. Read Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] Documents from Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group are proactively released to the public. View proactive releases Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Last updated: 3 June 2022 at 10:12 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. Make a direct request for official information The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. This includes papers, minutes, Official Information Act requests (OIAs) and key advice. These documents are proactively released in keeping with the Official Information Act 1982. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 12:41 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Alert Level Orders are published on the New Zealand legislation website | legislation.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 9:29 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 1:30 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 9 October 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 11 August 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 13 June 2022 at 12:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 11:58 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. View documents from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Last updated: 26 April 2022 at 4:03 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 17 December 2021 at 10:03 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Our website privacy statement, terms of use, contact details if you would like advice or have feedback, and how to access archives of our website. How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. Last updated: 23 July 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find contact information for the COVID-19 group at the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. I am looking for...  You can find guidance and submit an Official Information Request to the COVID-19 Group on the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet website: How to make an Official Information Act request Find information and advice translated into different languages: Translations Find information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs: Alternate formats Immigration New Zealand can answer questions about travel eligibility and visa categories. Contact Immigration NZ | immigration.govt.nz Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz  If you run or own a business, you can find information on the business.govt website: COVID-19: Information for businesses COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) Contact us | business.govt.nz We have a selection of posters available for in the traffic light settings available on this website. You can also get your QR code poster. Download posters Get your QR code poster All our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, can be viewed and download through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email: covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz You will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can send a query through an online form on the Employment website or call them. Online form | employment.govt.nz Call: 0800 20 90 20 Call 111 immediately. If you have COVID-19, tell them when you ring. You need to contact your care co-ordinator or call Healthline. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19response@health.govt.nz  There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. How to get your My Vaccine Pass There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact MIQ. You can find contact details on their website. Contact us | miq.govt.nz If you have a health concern after your vaccination, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor. You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19vaccine@health.govt.nz  Visit the Work and Income website for urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. Work and Income website (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) In MyMSD you can check your payments, tell MSD about changes and apply for a benefit or NZ Super: Use MyMSD You can also use the COVID-19 financial support tool on this website to see what support is available to you. Use the financial support tool If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Report a breach online Face masks If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements How to report false or misleading information that you see can be found on this website. Report false or misleading information Contact the COVID-19 media team: Email: covid19media@dpmc.govt.nz The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz Businesses and workplaces are no longer required to display a QR code poster, but can choose to do so. There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Get your QR code poster If you have questions or feedback about the app, QR code posters or any problems using them, you will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Call 0800 800 606 You must enable JavaScript to submit this form Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach You can contact the COVID-19 Group by using our online form above or sending a letter to us. If you are sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Postal address: COVID-19 Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand Last updated: 9 February 2022 at 2:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. You may browse and access information contained within this website — including completing user research tasks, like filling in a survey — without providing any personal information. If you provide information (including personal information) to us — for example, through the general enquiry form — we will only use that information to: We will keep any such information secure. We may share it with third parties to the extent necessary for the services they provide to us related to the purposes of our ICT systems and website. We have software to track which pages are visited. This helps us identify the most popular areas of our website. The information is aggregated, and we cannot identify individual visitors. Learn more about how we use statistical information You have the right to ask for a copy of any personal information we hold about you, and to ask for it to be corrected if you think it is wrong. If you would like to ask for a copy of your information, or to have it corrected, or you have any concerns about personal information that we hold, please write to: The Privacy Officer Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington or send an email to information@dpmc.govt.nz We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) Last updated: 18 May 2022 at 9:58 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Welcome to Covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC-BY-NC Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/ (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government Logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photograph, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. DPMC may remove access to the content at any time. We updated this 'Copyright and attribution' section on 20 January 2022. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 12:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) Last updated: 6 October 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. You might be interested in Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. Some workers must be fully vaccinated to go to work. Find more information on who needs to be vaccinated. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination.       Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers. Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 2:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines were developed, how we know they are effective, and how the Pfizer vaccine works. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 2:40 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 vaccine protects your child, your whānau and your community. It is free and available now for everyone aged 5 and over.  COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Like adults, if your child is infected with COVID-19 they may transmit the virus to other people. Immunising tamariki helps protect whānau members whose health makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19.  COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Learn more about the effects of COVID-19 Tamariki aged 5 to 11 can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. They will receive a children’s (paediatric) version of the Pfizer vaccine, with a lower dose and smaller volume. It is also given using a smaller needle. The lower dose was chosen based on a trial that showed the lower dose was safe and had few side effects in this age group. Children are not eligible for a booster or the AstraZeneca vaccine. To be fully protected, children need 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. We recommend the first and second dose are at least 8 weeks apart. The interval can be shortened to a minimum of 21 days if needed — for example, if the child is starting significant immunosuppression treatment. You will need to discuss this with the child's doctor. If children and young people who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19.  Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. They only approve a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. The trials in 5 to 11-year-olds with a child dose of the Pfizer showed the vaccine was safe, and the side effects were generally mild. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine Research and data on vaccinating children aged 5-11 | health.govt.nz (external link) Explain that it might hurt for a short time, just like their other childhood immunisations. Tell them there will be a small needle and that they will feel a sharp scratch or sting briefly but then it will be over. They may have a sore arm, fever, headache or feel tired afterwards. It is important to tell them why they are getting vaccinated. Let them know the vaccine will protect them against COVID-19, and protect their family, their grandparents, their community, and other kids at school who may be more at risk from COVID-19 if they catch it. Make sure they know they will need 2 doses. Give them time to ask the vaccinator questions if they have them. Have some games or toys ready so you can distract them during their vaccination and entertain them while you wait for 15 minutes afterwards. Arrange a fun activity or treat to look forward to after the appointment. Tell them that they might feel a bit unwell or a day or two, and arrange to spend some extra time with them if you can. What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB]    There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. You can choose the child vaccine (5-11s) or adult vaccine (12+) from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. How to find an NHI number (external link) There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment.> Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites will be offering vaccinations to 5 to 11-year-olds. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you If you would like to talk through any questions or worries, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The COVID Vaccination Healthline team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional.  Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link)  COVID-19 vaccination | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)  Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 2:40 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Answering your questions Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. In the clinical trials it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against Omicron, a booster is likely offer greater protection by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get a free booster now.    COVID-19 vaccines needed to be rolled out quickly, but that does not mean safety was compromised. The Pfizer vaccine we are using in New Zealand is held to the same high safety standards as any other medicine. COVID-19 vaccines are the most well-studied vaccines ever made. More than 50% of the world's population have had a COVID-19 vaccine. Nearly 4 million people in Aotearoa have had their second Pfizer vaccine, and over 2.5 million people have had a booster. This means we have lots of data to show the Pfizer vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety.   You might feel nervous about getting the vaccine, which is normal. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm, and it will be over very fast. You will then need to stay for at least 15 minutes so we can make sure you do not have an immediate reaction.    If you have another question, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 5:08 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB]    Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 6:03 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster   If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 2:37 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. Children and young people with disabilities can get vaccinated at some accessible sites with their whānau. Learn more about vaccinations for children If you are aged 18 and over, and it has been 3 months since your last dose, you can book your booster now. Young people aged 16 and 17 can get a free Pfizer booster 6 months after completing their primary course. Learn more about booster doses If you are worried about getting the vaccine, you can talk to a trained advisor in the Healthline disability team. The team is made up of people who have experience of a disability themselves, or who have worked with the disabled community. They will support you, your whānau or someone you care for and answer any questions you may have about: The disability team is available Monday to Friday, from 8am to 8pm.  Using My Vaccine Pass is no longer a legal requirement, but some businesses, events and venues may choose to still use it. This means you may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter some places. You can still receive essential care even if you do not have a My Vaccine Pass. Your care and support workers must continue to be fully vaccinated and boosted. This is so they can keep you safe, and reduce the risk of passing COVID-19 to you. All health workers also need to be fully vaccinated and boosted. Find out more about the changes to My Vaccine Pass If you have decided you want to get the vaccine, it is easy to get vaccinated. You can get your vaccination at: You can also talk to, text or email a trained advisor to discuss whether a home vaccination is right for you. Some vaccination centres are fully accessible. Your family, whānau and support workers are also welcome to get their vaccinations with you. Map of vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand | karawhiua.nz (external link) You can book your vaccination by: The disability team can also help you book an appointment for your tamariki at an accessible site.  You can take a support person with you when you get your vaccination. This can be a carer, or someone else you trust. When you get to the vaccination site, you will need to sign in. If you need an NZSL interpreter or information in an accessible format, please ask. When it is your time to get vaccinated, the staff will ask you whether it is okay to give you the vaccine. If you say yes, this is called consent. If you cannot give consent, someone who is allowed to make decisions for you can give consent for you. The vaccinator may also ask you questions about how you are feeling, and what medication you take. It is normal to feel scared or worried. Ask the vaccinator if you have any questions. You will need to wait for 15 minutes after your vaccination. If this is hard for you, ask if you can wait somewhere else.   You can choose to get the vaccine. You can say yes or no or ask for help making your decision. For disabled people or people with an impairment, the journey to get vaccinated may look a little different. We have created the Manaakitanga Journey online tool to help support disabled people to get vaccinated. If you are supporting someone with a disability to make a decision about getting the COVID-19 vaccine, you can use one of the supported decision making tools. Choose the guidance tool or combination of tools that best suits the person you are supporting. Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 2:36 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people — Ministry of Health (external link) If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: You can get a free Pfizer booster if: Get your vaccine booster A second booster is recommended for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. We will update this page with information about who is eligible and how to book in the next few weeks. If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: What the AstraZeneca vaccine contains What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 2:37 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and older who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. Both the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines will protect you against the symptoms of COVID-19. Both vaccines are free. The AstraZeneca vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 4 weeks before getting your second dose. To have the best protection, you need to get both doses of the vaccine. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety by Medsafe. Medsafe only grants approval for using a vaccine in Aotearoa once it is satisfied the international evidence shows benefits outweigh the risks. There have been no shortcuts taken in granting approval. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been used successfully by millions worldwide. You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: You cannot get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you are under 18 years old. The AstraZeneca vaccine is injected into a muscle (usually in the upper arm). The second injection can be given between 4 and 12 weeks after the first injection. If you get AstraZeneca for the first dose then you should also get it (and not the Pfizer vaccine) for the second dose. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination. There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. Pregnancy and the Pfizer vaccine The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The AstraZeneca vaccine stimulates the body’s immune system. It causes the body to produce antibodies to help fight the virus. This will help to protect you against COVID-19 in the future. None of the ingredients in this vaccine can cause COVID-19. COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. In the clinical trials, the AstraZeneca vaccine gave 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. It also shows effectiveness against hospital admission of at least 80% after a single dose. For the best protection, you need 2 doses. As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines There are some side effects that are very rare but are more serious. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately. AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Assessing and approving the vaccines | Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca | Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Last updated: 25 March 2022 at 10:34 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. If you are aged 18 years or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine Last updated: 10 January 2022 at 2:35 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan. Last updated: 11 October 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] Everything you need to know about Novavax [PDF, 321 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 360 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB]  Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine Last updated: 23 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Choose an episode In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, traffic light settings, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face masks to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. Learn more about how Aotearoa New Zealand responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, and why getting vaccinated is an important step towards protection from the virus. COVID-19 is a disease caused by the virus SARS-CoV-2. But what is a virus? And how do vaccines prepare you to fight off these ‘invaders’, so you are less likely to get sick if you catch it? Vaccines can be made in different ways. For COVID-19, Aotearoa New Zealand chose to use a type of vaccine known as an mRNA vaccine, produced by Pfizer. But what is an mRNA vaccine? It is natural for a virus to change and produce variations of itself. These are known as 'variants' and are all slightly different to the original virus. But will vaccines still work against them? Development of vaccines for COVID-19 was based on decades of research. The vaccines were produced quickly because testing was able to be streamlined. Before getting consent for use in Aotearoa New Zealand, vaccines must meet our strict standards for quality and safety. The benefits of getting a COVID-19 vaccine far outweigh the risks. A vaccination provides you, your whānau and your communities better protection against the virus. When everyone is vaccinated, this helps to end the pandemic. Booking your COVID-19 vaccination is easy. When you get the 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine, you may experience some side effects. So what are they? Note: The advice about the gap between doses has changed since this video was made. We are now advising all New Zealanders to consider a shorter gap of 3 weeks between their 2 doses, instead of the standard 6 weeks. Reducing this gap means more people can be fully vaccinated sooner, increasing our community immunity. Vaccination will help us get back to doing the things we love. But keep carrying out these simple steps so we stay on top of outbreaks: stay home if you are unwell and get a test, keep scanning in to keep track of where you have been, wear a face mask in situations where the virus could spread easily (like on public transport), and wash your hands regularly.  Watch episode 8 (external link) Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 2:37 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB]  We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. Watch all our campaign videos (external link) COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 2:42 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. What you need to know Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 or over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Children under 5 cannot get vaccinated for COVID-19. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines are not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine About the Novavax vaccine | health.govt.nz (external link) You can get a free booster if you are aged 16 or over and have completed your primary course of the vaccine. For most people, the primary course is 2 doses. You can get a Pfizer booster 6 months after completing your primary course. You can get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca booster 3 months after completing your primary course. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. Current evidence shows your protection against infection after 2 doses slowly decreases over time. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link)  Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call the COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline: 0800 28 29 26 You will need your booking reference to reschedule or cancel an appointment online. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Cancel or change your booking online | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline: 0800 28 29 26 Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 2:44 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | health.govt.nz (external link) If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 2:38 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Wo rkers that are still covered by a government vaccine mandate include : Certain roles within the following workforces may also be captured by government vaccine mandates, if they are working in an environment where a mandate is required — for example, alongside paramedics or other health workers. Workers covered by a government vaccine mandate are required to be vaccinated because they come into close contact with people who are likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. Border workers , i ncluding those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports must be vaccinated because they are likely to be exposed to new variants. COVID-19 booster vaccinations are also mandated for workforces covered by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order). This means workers in these sectors must get a booster 6 months (183 days) after they complete their primary vaccination course. If eligible, we recommend you get your booster after 3 months. You must be 18 years or older to receive a booster dose. If you are under 18 years old and have had your primary vaccination course, you can continue to work. 8 vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: For all other vaccines, the primary course of vaccination means 2 doses. If you have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, you will need to have a second dose. You are able to get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as your second dose. Novavax is only approved as a primary course of vaccination and not as a booster dose. However, the Novavax vaccine is available as a booster on prescription from an approved health professional. Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for border and MIQ workers | transport.govt.nz (external link) Medical exemptions for workers who have recently recovered from COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Exemptions for the border, health and prison workers | health.govt.nz (external link) If your employees are not covered by the vaccine mandate, you can choose if you want to require your employees to be fully vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccinations can only be used as a measure if the risk of contracting and transmitting COVID-19 at work is higher than it is in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read the guidance on Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand for advice. COVID-19 controls at work – employer vaccination requirements | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) Find out where and how to get your COVID-19 vaccination and booster dose. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination Last updated: 5 April 2022 at 12:01 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. There are 3 official records you can use as proof of your vaccination status. They are My Vaccine Pass, an International Travel Vaccination Certificate, and your COVID-19 vaccination record. You can use My Covid Record to access your COVID-19 vaccination records, view your COVID-19 test results, and report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result. Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 2:38 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: Or an Australian: My Covid Record (external link) If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, need help with My Covid Record, or have a query about your COVID-19 records, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Phone: 0800 222 478 Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Your guide to signing up and using My Covid Record [PDF, 301 KB] You can sign up for My Covid Record on behalf of someone else, if you have their permission. They will need their own unique email address. If they do not have an email address, call 0800 222 478 for help. It will help to have their NHI number ready. We take your privacy seriously. Only you can access your secure My Covid Record. Your account must be verified with a valid form of identification so we know it is actually you. By keeping your account safe, no one else will be able to access your records. You can use My Covid Record to:   You can request 3 free official records of your COVID-19 vaccination status through My Covid Record. How to get proof of your vaccination status through My Covid Record You can see your recent PCR test results on My Covid Record. When you log into your account, you will be able to view all the test results you have had in the last 90 days. If you have tested for COVID-19 using your own RAT, you can report it online using My Covid Record. You can also report a RAT on behalf of someone else. You can only report one RAT per person in a 12 hour period. How to use My Covid Record to report your RAT results Accessing your NHI number as a QR code will make visiting places like COVID-19 testing sites quick and easy, as it allows us to scan the QR code to identify you. Last updated: 5 April 2022 at 12:01 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. There are 3 ways to show proof of your vaccinations: If you are travelling overseas and you need to provide proof of your vaccination status, you will need an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of a COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request one. The details on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. You can review your personal details when you request the certificate. These certificates comply with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. You will also need to meet all immigration and entry requirements for the country you are travelling to, for example some countries may also require proof of a negative pre-departure test. Before travelling, check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate will have a QR code that will be scanned when you are travelling. It will include details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had administered in New Zealand. You can save this certificate on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. This certificate is valid for 12 months. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate We also recommend downloading a copy of your vaccination records that you can use alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. About My Vaccine Record My Vaccine Pass is a domestic record of COVID-19 vaccinations that you might be asked to show within New Zealand. In April 2022 the legal requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Passes was removed. Some businesses may voluntarily keep My Vaccine Pass requirements as a condition of entry. For this reason, it is a good idea to have an up-to-date My Vaccine Pass handy in case you are asked for it. An updated My Vaccine Pass is available for anyone aged 12 and over who is up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccinations, as well as those with a temporary medical exemption.  The updated My Vaccine Pass will have a slightly different look to the current version with a different colour and a few updates to design. It will still have a QR code. New My Vaccine Passes will be valid for 6 months. You can request a new pass for yourself or someone else: You can get a temporary My Vaccine Pass if: Businesses can choose to require people to show their My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. It is up to each business to decide what is appropriate, taking into account the health and safety of their workers and customers. Businesses can do this as long as: Businesses can also continue to use the NZ Pass Verifier app to check My Vaccine Passes. Requiring My Vaccine Pass for entry | business.govt.nz (external link) More information about NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) Businesses cannot ask children under 12 years and 3 months for a My Vaccine Pass. You can request a copy of your COVID-19 vaccination record online through My Covid Record. Your vaccination record includes: It can be used: Your vaccination record cannot be used instead of a My Vaccine Pass or an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass, International Travel Vaccination Certificate or record of your COVID-19 vaccinations. How to get My Vaccine Passes for a group 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the 'Passes and certificates' section, select 'Request pass or certificate'.   3.The 'Select who this pass or certificate is for' will open. Select either 'Myself' or 'Someone else'. 4. The 'Select a pass or certificate' option will appear. Select 'My Vaccine Pass' or 'International Travel Vaccination Certificate'.  5. You will then be prompted to enter details including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. 1.Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'.   3. You will then be prompted to enter your email address. Your Vaccine Record will be emailed to you within 24 hours.   How to use My Covid Record Last updated: 9 June 2022 at 9:24 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. The Pfizer vaccine is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are aged 18 or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine About the Novavax vaccine | health.govt.nz (external link) Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects Whether you get the Pfizer, AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection. The standard gap between doses is: For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap is 8 weeks or more between doses. Learn more about getting your second dose Clinical trials found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection and the AstraZeneca vaccine 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Healthy habits Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 2:37 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. What you need to know New Zealand’s borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. New Zealand's borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. Information for travellers transiting through New Zealand. Advice for New Zealanders and residents in New Zealand who want to travel overseas. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders. We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 9:56 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. New Zealand's borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Travellers from some Pacific Islands do not need a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand or self-test on arrival. Information on how to enter New Zealand if you are travelling from Asia, Africa, Europe, North America or South America. Last updated: 26 April 2022 at 9:30 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Before you travel, read our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Preparing to travel to New Zealand  If you want to travel from Australia, you must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents can now enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. If you are not a New Zealand or Australian citizen or resident, check to see if you can travel. Who can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand and Australian citizens do not need one. Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Read Immigration NZ's guidance for Australian citizens and permanent residents. Advice for Australian citizens and permanent residents who want to enter New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. This includes people who begin their journey in New Zealand to travel to Australia, and then return to New Zealand — no matter how long you are in Australia for. You need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19, have recently recovered from  COVID-19 or if you are self-testing on arrival. Plan when to get your test and results as they must be: If you are making a short visit to Australia, this may mean you have to get a test soon after you arrive in Australia. If your pre-departure test documentation does not contain the required information, or is not in the required format, you may be prevented from boarding your flight to New Zealand. Pre-departure testing requirements to enter New Zealand You do not need to be vaccinated. You can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. How to travel to New Zealand when you are self-testing after arrival If you are not a New Zealand citizen or resident and you are aged 17 years or over, you must be vaccinated with approved vaccines to enter New Zealand. You will need to provide proof of your vaccination status. Some people are exempt from the vaccination requirements. Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand If you do not meet the vaccination requirements, you will not be able to enter New Zealand.  All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. You can start your declaration 28 days before you travel. You will need to provide: You should submit your declaration as soon as you have your pre-departure test result, so there is time to verify and review your documents before your flight. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) You will be given a welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. You must report your RATs results — even if they are negative. You will receive an email with details on how to report your RATs results into the New Zealand health system. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand All visa holders who are fully vaccinated for international travel purposes can travel to Australia without a travel exemption. Unvaccinated visa holders will still need to be in an exempt category or hold an individual travel exemption to enter Australia. Everyone travelling to Australia by air must complete the Digital Passenger Declaration. Travelling to Australia | australia.gov.au (external link) More information about the Digital Passenger Declaration (external link) Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 4:33 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government of Niue has announced that quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue will start from 27 June 2022. Travelling from New Zealand to Niue  Before you travel, read our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Preparing to travel to New Zealand New Zealand's borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. People coming from most Pacific countries need to be eligible to travel here. Eligible travellers include: New Zealand and Australian citizens do not need one. Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can now apply for a visitor visa to travel to New Zealand from a Pacific Island Forum country. The full list of Pacific Island forum countries is available on the Immigration NZ website. Travelling from the Pacific islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link)    If you are aged 17 years or over, and you are not a New Zealand citizen or resident, or an Australian citizen who lives in New Zealand — you must be vaccinated with an approved vaccine to enter New Zealand. Some airlines may have additional vaccination requirements. Check with your airline before you fly. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Use this tool to find out if you need a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. If you are travelling from a country where you do not need to self-test on arrival in New Zealand, you must meet the following conditions to travel to New Zealand: All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. You can start your declaration 28 days before you travel. You will need to provide: You should submit your declaration as soon as you have your pre-departure test result, so there is time to verify and review your documents before your flight. You will need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you do not need to get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand, select that you are exempt in the pre-departure test section of the Traveller Declaration. This will allow you to have your Traveller Pass issued without uploading pre-departure testing documentation. Complete your traveller declaration (external link)  If you are travelling from a country where you do not need to self-test on arrival in New Zealand, you should take a direct flight to New Zealand. If there are no direct flights, you should transit through another Pacific country from which travellers to New Zealand are not required to self-test on arrival. If this is not possible, you will be required to self-test for COVID-19 when you arrive. You must also: Most travellers must take 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) after they arrive in New Zealand. Travellers arriving from Niue do not need to self-test on arrival if they have taken a direct flight to New Zealand. If you are required to self-test on arrival, you will be given a welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. You must report your RATs results — even if they are negative. You will receive an email with details on how to report your RATs results into the New Zealand health system. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand If you want to travel to the Pacific Islands from New Zealand, you will need to: If you are unsure if you can travel, contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country you are travelling to. Foreign embassies in New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) We also encourage you to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice if you are leaving New Zealand You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Normal immigration rules still apply. Check what you need to do to travel to the Cook Islands (external link) The Government of Niue has announced that quarantine-free travel (QFT) from New Zealand to Niue will start from Monday 27 June 2022, along with the resumption of weekly passenger flights. Until then, the Government of Niue must approve all people who want to travel there. You can find more information about the entry requirements for Niue — including vaccination requirements, pre-departure testing, and COVID-19 testing on arrival — on the Niue Government website, or by emailing Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu More information about quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue (external link) Information about Niue's COVID-19 response (external link) Last updated: 3 June 2022 at 3:15 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Travellers will still need to meet all health requirements to enter New Zealand, including vaccination requirements and providing proof of a negative pre-departure test. Pre-departure testing requirements currently apply until 31 July 2022. The Government has indicated that pre-departure testing requirements may be removed before this date. Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Before you travel, read our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Preparing to travel to New Zealand New Zealand borders are reopening throughout 2022. New Zealand citizens and other vaccinated eligible travellers can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Book an available flight to New Zealand. If you are a New Zealand citizen, it is a good idea to register with SafeTravel at the same time. SafeTravel can check on your wellbeing if needed, or send you important information while you are overseas. Register with SafeTravel (external link)  New Zealand citizens, residents and Australian citizens who live in New Zealand do not need to be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. All other travellers aged 17 years and over must be vaccinated with approved vaccines. Unvaccinated children aged 16 years and under can self-test on arrival if they are travelling alone, or with parents or guardians who meet the requirements for self-testing. Some people are exempt from the vaccination requirements. Check the vaccination requirements  All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. You can start your declaration 28 days before you travel. You will need to provide: You should submit your declaration as soon as you have your pre-departure test result, so there is time to verify and review your documents before your flight. You will need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. Even if you are self-testing on arrival, you still must get a pre-departure test. You can choose one of the following: Make sure your pre-departure test documentation meets New Zealand’s standards. Find out more about pre-departure testing requirements You need to have some evidence at the airport. Your documents can be paper or electronic. If they apply to you, you will need your: You will be asked if you have COVID-19 symptoms by airline staff. Customs will check your: Expect some delays as you transit through the airport. Please be kind to airport staff as they are working as quickly and carefully as they can. You will be given your welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Children under 6 months do not need to self-test on arrival. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand If you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being here for 7 days or longer, you will need to: If you are a visitor to New Zealand and have COVID-19 Last updated: 13 May 2022 at 2:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders and develop new ways for people to travel to and from Aotearoa New Zealand. When New Zealand borders open Vaccination status and verification will be an important part of supporting New Zealanders to travel internationally. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can now request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Requesting your certificate takes just 1 to 2 minutes and will be emailed to you within 24 hours.  The quickest way to get your pass is through your My Covid Record, but if you cannot access this service you can call 0800 222 478 — have your NHI number ready. How to use My Covid Record How to use My Covid Record to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 260 KB] Sign in to My Covid Record (external link) Everyone travelling to New Zealand by air must complete a New Zealand Traveller Declaration (NZTD) prior to check-in at the airport. The information collected, which includes COVID-19 vaccination status and test results, is used to let travellers know what they need to do when they arrive in New Zealand: such as self-test on arrival or enter quarantine-free. Travellers need to complete an NZTD and be issued with a Traveller Pass to board their flight to New Zealand, and must show their pass on arrival in New Zealand. The complexity of digital and operational systems that the NZTD needs mean that it is being developed in stages. The first version came into effect in March 2022. The New Zealand Customs Service is administering this project.  The forum started with a presentation from Sir David Skegg, with an overview of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group’s advice on reconnecting New Zealand. It was followed by a discussion MC’d by the Prime Minister’s Chief Science Advisor, Dame Juliet Gerrard. The experts bring a range of backgrounds and perspectives to a discussion about vaccination, safe borders, safe travel and public health habits. The event also featured a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and opening remarks from Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health. Panel experts included Sir David Skegg, Sir Brian Roche, Dr Maia Brewerton, Dr Api Talemaitoga, Mr Rob Fyfe, Professor Michael Baker, and Dr Ashley Bloomfield. The event was held on Thursday 12 August 2021.  Last updated: 6 April 2022 at 3:40 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you are transiting New Zealand, you must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. This applies even if you are staying airside and you do not go through Customs. Complete the traveller declaration (external link) If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can transit New Zealand to travel to Australia. To be eligible to transit New Zealand to Australia, you must meet all requirements for entry to Australia. Check if you: It is your responsibility to ensure that you comply with Australian entry requirements. Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, resident or Australian citizen who normally lives in New Zealand, you must be vaccinated with approved vaccines. This applies even though you are staying airside and you do not go through Customs. Travellers aged 16 years or under do not need to be vaccinated. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 2:07 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Your destination, transit location and transport operators may have their own testing and vaccination requirements. Your may not be allowed to travel if you: Before you travel, check the travel advice for your destination and any transit locations to learn about their entry and exit requirements. If you are unsure, contact your airline, travel agent or the relevant government department in the country you are visiting. Check the official website of the country you wish to enter for information about any COVID-19 restrictions. Rules and restrictions can change quickly, so make sure you regularly check local health advice for the country you are travelling to. There are some simple things you can do to keep you and your whānau safe while you are overseas. Make sure you have a plan if you or someone you are travelling with gets COVID-19 while overseas. If you test positive for COVID-19, you may have to pay for quarantine or self-isolate for a period of time. Be prepared for the possibility you may be in your destination longer than planned. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Get emergency consular help by calling: Check what you need to do before you enter New Zealand. Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands How to enter New Zealand if you are travelling from Asia, North America, South America, Europe or Africa   Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 1:56 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. New Zealand’s borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. What you need to know Over 2022, New Zealand's borders are reopening to allow more travellers to enter New Zealand. Use our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Most travellers must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. All travellers must complete the traveller declaration before travelling to New Zealand. Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 test result to enter New Zealand. Find out about our pre-departure requirements. Eligible travellers must do 2 rapid antigen tests after arriving in New Zealand. Find out about testing when you arrive. Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Travellers from some Pacific Islands do not need a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand or self-test on arrival. Information on how to enter New Zealand if you are travelling from Asia, Africa, Europe, North America or South America. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: More help from SafeTravel (external link) Last updated: 1 May 2022 at 2:55 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. The Government has confirmed they expect to remove pre-departure testing requirements no later than 31 July 2022. We recommend you check this page at least a week before your international flight to New Zealand, in case testing requirements have changed. 1. Depending on which country you are travelling from, you may need to get a pre-departure test. Pre-departure testing requirements apply even if you are vaccinated. Check if you need a pre-departure test 2. Some people do not need to get a pre-departure test. Who does not need a pre-departure test 3. Make sure you know what type of test you can get and when to get it. Types of pre-departure tests 4. Find a testing provider. Your test results must meet New Zealand Government standards. What your test results should include 5. If you have recently had COVID-19, you still need a pre-departure test. You will also need to get a medical certificate to confirm you are no longer infectious. Advice if you have recently recovered from COVID-19 6. Upload your test results to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. Complete the Traveller Declaration (external link)  You can use our tool to find out if you need a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. If you are stopping over for more than 72 hours in another country on your way to New Zealand, you will need to do a pre-departure test for New Zealand there and complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. Make sure you check the entry requirements for any countries you are stopping over in. Your test results must meet NZ Government standards. Your test results may not be accepted if you do not have the right documentation, or if you have not taken your test within the required timeframe. Approved pre-departure tests are: More information about testing and documentation requirements Last updated: 3 June 2022 at 3:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Use our tool to find out if you need to get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. There are very few exceptions. Pre-departure testing requirements currently apply until 31 July 2022. The Government has confirmed it expects to remove pre-departure testing requirements no later than 31 July 2022. Check if you need a pre-departure test Most travellers entering New Zealand must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 result from one of these tests. You must get a test even if you are self-testing on arrival. You must get a PCR test a maximum of 48 hours before your first international flight to New Zealand. You must get a supervised rapid antigen test (RAT) a maximum of 24 hours before your first international flight to New Zealand. You must get a supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) a maximum of 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand. RAT and LAMP tests must be supervised — this means the results must be verified by a health professional such as a nurse or pharmacist. You can also use a telehealth service. You must have proof of your negative pre-departure test. You will need this to complete your New Zealand Traveller Declaration. Your pre-departure test documentation must meet New Zealand Government standards. The results must be: Self-administered tests which are not supervised a health professional, or free tests from community testing stations may not meet the Government standard. We recommend you check before getting tested. This form guides health professionals supervising your RAT or LAMP test to provide the correct information required for your traveller declaration. It helps to print out this form and take it to your supervised test. Predeparture COVID-19 test — evidence of RAT/LAMP [PDF, 190 KB] You will need to upload your pre-departure result to your New Zealand Traveller Declaration. You can upload your results in the following formats: PDF, PNG and JPG – up to 50MB. How to upload your test results to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) If you cannot take a test for medical reasons, you must provide a medical certificate. You will need to get this 72 hours before your flight. You will be asked to confirm your medical exemption when completing your New Zealand Traveller Declaration. You will need to show proof of your exemption at check-in and to Customs staff when you arrive in New Zealand. If you test positive, you may not be able to board your flight. You should postpone your travel and follow local public health advice. If you have recently recovered from COVID-19 and your test result is positive, you will need to see a doctor who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If you have recently recovered from COVID-19, you still need a pre-departure test. If you test positive, a health practitioner will need to assess you for current symptoms of COVID-19. Examples of health practitioners include doctors, health protection officers or medical officers of health. Your medical assessment can be done in person or remotely. If the health practitioner is confident you do not have COVID-19, they must give you: You will also need to provide proof of your positive pre-departure test result. Last updated: 7 June 2022 at 3:50 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A step-by-step guide on what you need to do to travel to New Zealand and meet COVID-19 requirements. Last updated: 7 June 2022 at 1:03 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions on how to use them, at the airport. You must take 2 tests. Take a test on: You can find more detailed instructions for taking a RAT test on the Ministry of Health website. Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) If you have arrived in New Zealand from overseas in the last 7 days and you need additional RATs or if you did not receive any at the airport, you can order some online for free. You will need access to a mobile phone to validate your order and confirm your flight details. You can order RATs for yourself or people you are travelling with. Order free RATs online (external link) You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. Your Welcome Pack will have instructions on how you can report your result. If you did not get a Welcome Pack, you can email the Ministry of Health. Email: help@selfisolation.testing.min.health.nz You will receive a reminder email from the New Zealand Ministry of Health. Follow the instructions in the email and report your results using the link in the email. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results Line with your result. The call centre is open from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 432 010 If you return a positive RAT result you will need to: PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you return a negative RAT, you must still report your result. You do not need to self-isolate. If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must get a PCR test. Tell the health professional who does the test that you have recently arrived in New Zealand. The PCR test sample provides valuable information about potential new variants coming into New Zealand. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you develop COVID-19 symptoms after arriving in New Zealand but test negative, you should isolate and take another RAT 48 hours later. If your symptoms get worse you can call Healthline for free on: If you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being here for 7 days or longer, you will need to: If you are a visitor to New Zealand and have COVID-19 Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 1:26 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. What to do if you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being in New Zealand for 7 days or longer. Report your positive rapid antigen test (RAT) by calling 0800 222 478 and get instructions on what to do. The Ministry of Health will send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers confirming your positive result. This text will provide information about self-isolation and a 6-digit access code for an online contact tracing form. You should tell your accommodation provider, the people you are staying with, people you have spent time with, such as tour operators, and any other close contacts, that you have COVID-19. Self-isolation reduces the risk of spreading the virus to others. You must isolate for at least 7 days while you recover. Your 7 days start from Day 0 — the day your symptoms started or the day you got tested. If you want extra RATs, these can be purchased from pharmacies, supermarkets, online or picked up from a collection point. Where to get a test You are required to isolate where you are or find alternative accommodation. If you do not comply, you can be fined. Check with your current accommodation provider to extend your current booking or be prepared to look for alternative accommodation. You are expected to meet any additional costs associated with extending your stay or booking alternative accommodation. Check your travel insurance policy to see if you are covered. If cannot stay in your current accommodation, you must find alternative accommodation. It must be: Isolation accommodation can be self-contained motels, hotels, or campervans. Ask your current accommodation provider for help finding somewhere suitable. You cannot: Private transport can be used to relocate to your alternative isolation accommodation. It can be your own vehicle, or you can a hire vehicle if it is contactless payment and collection. Anyone staying or travelling with you will need to self-isolate for 7 days. They are your Household Contacts. This includes people staying with you in: Advice for your Household Contacts In hostels and backpackers, people who are not travelling with you do not need to isolate. They should:  Advice for Close Contacts Remember to contact your airline or tourism operator to reschedule any travel plans or activities. Please note, there is no legal obligation on the provider to provide a refund or reschedule. What you need to know when you are self-isolating COVID-19, especially the Omicron variant, is highly infectious. You are protecting your health and theirs by telling them as soon as possible. You should tell the people you are staying with, your accommodation provider, people you have spent time with, such as tour operators, and any other close contacts, that you have COVID-19. They may need to isolate as well. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using the 6-digit access code you received in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. For most people, it will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. Complete the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need food or other essential supplies while you are isolating, ask family or friends to drop off supplies at your door. You can also order supplies online, and arrange for a contactless delivery. If you need any advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms,  call Healthline for free on: Translation services are available. You may have to pay for any medical treatment you need. We encourage visitors to New Zealand to buy comprehensive travel insurance before they travel. If you are an Australian Citizen or Permanent Resident or are a citizen of the United Kingdom, there is a reciprocal health agreement that means you pay what New Zealanders pay for healthcare. Consider contacting your embassy, consulate or High Commission if you go into hospital or require consular assistance. Foreign embassies in New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) If you need urgent medical help call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you call. This can include if you or someone you care for has: If you need to go into hospital, you may need to pay for any care you receive. Check your travel insurance policy to see if you are covered. You can leave your accommodation if you wear a face mask at all times to: If you are still sick, stay in your accommodation until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. You do not need to wait for an official message or release to leave isolation. You do not need to be tested. If you were, the result would likely show as positive but that does not mean you are infectious. Your Household Contacts can complete their isolation at the same time as you, as long as their Day 7 test was negative and they have no new or worsening symptoms. If their tests are positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery. After you have had COVID-19 Check if you need to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test, or a medical certificate confirming you have recovered before you travel. If you have recently recovered from COVID-19, your pre-departure test may show a positive result.  Last updated: 25 May 2022 at 12:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most travellers must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. You will be required to provide proof of your vaccinations. If you do not meet the vaccination requirements, you will not be able to enter New Zealand. You need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand if you are: You may be able to get an exemption if you are travelling to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health: Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand. To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. You need a digital vaccine certificate or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: Last updated: 27 May 2022 at 9:24 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Travellers will still need to meet all health requirements to enter New Zealand, including vaccination requirements and providing proof of a negative pre-departure test. Pre-departure testing requirements currently apply until 31 July 2022. Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) The following people can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world and self-test on arrival. Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand under current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Visa waiver countries and territories | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link)  The following vaccinated people can apply to enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival: Accredited Employer Work Visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) From 11:59pm Sunday 31 July, all visa categories including visitor and student visas will reopen for applications for travellers from anywhere in the world. You must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand, and have evidence of a negative COVID-19 test before your first international flight. Preparing to travel to New Zealand To enter New Zealand, you must meet some health requirements. Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand Get a pre-departure test After you enter New Zealand you must do 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6 and declare your results. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. All positive RATs must be registered and followed up with a PCR test. Testing requirements after arriving Travellers from some Pacific island countries are not required to get a pre-departure test or test on arrival. Travel with the Pacific Islands Last updated: 7 June 2022 at 2:53 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. What you need to know What steps to take if you have tested positive for COVID-19. If you are self-isolating because of COVID-19, help is available if you need it. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery, including Long COVID. Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 11:27 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you are at low risk of severe illness, stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. You do not need to take a rapid antigen test (RAT). If you have an underlying health condition or have symptoms that are getting worse, seek advice from a health practitioner or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Get a COVID-19 test and follow the advice for a first infection. If you get COVID-19 again, your Household Contacts will need to isolate again, unless they have: How to get a COVID-19 test You do not need to isolate as a Household Contact for 90 days from when you first tested positive if someone else in your household gets COVID-19 during this time. The chance of you being reinfected with COVID-19 in the 90 days after testing positive is low. Household Contacts Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 3 months after recovery before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 8 June 2022 at 10:22 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, or if you are an employee. If you or someone in your household are waiting for a COVID-19 PCR test result and need to stay home, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply to help pay you. You can also apply if you are self-employed. You employer can get a one-off payment of $359. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (external link) If you cannot work from home while you are self-isolating, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. You may also be eligible for the scheme if you or someone you care for is at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) Extra help while you are self-isolating | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you have lost your job or you cannot work at the moment, you may be able to get help from Work and Income. Use the online tool to find out what type of help you may qualify for. Support if you are not working | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you have lost your job because you decide not to get the COVID-19 vaccination, Work and Income may be able to help. You can: You can get financial support from Work and Income regardless of your vaccination status. Lost job because of vaccination requirement | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Help for you and your whānau during COVID-19 | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | msd.govt.nz (external link) (external link) If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Contact details of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission (external link) (external link) If you are an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 3:18 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You may be able to get: Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 . It is open 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday, and 8am to 1pm Saturday, Sunday and public holidays. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. Keep in touch with your friends and whānau, your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support Last updated: 11 April 2022 at 8:42 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. What you need to know The Ministry of Health has more detailed advice about managing your symptoms and what to do while you are self-isolating. COVID-19 Health Hub | covid19.health.nz (external link) If you have taken a rapid antigen test (RAT), report your positive result online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result The Ministry of Health will then send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers to confirm your positive result. This has information about self-isolation, support options, and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. You must self-isolate for at least 7 days while you recover. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Your Household Contacts will also need to isolate for 7 days, unless they have had COVID-19 in the last 3 months. Create your household isolation timeline | covid19.health.nz (external link) Advice for your Household Contacts Help when you are self-isolating Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using your 6-digit access code. (You can find this code in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers .) For most people, the form will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and do not complete the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. Contact tracing form user guides | health.govt.nz (external link) You also need to tell your close contacts you have COVID-19. This includes the people you live with, and your workplace or school. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) Most people with COVID-19 — especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted — are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to recover at home. Symptoms for COVID-19 tend to show 2 to 5 days after a person has been infected but can take up to 14 days. Omicron causes similar symptoms to other variants. Advice on managing your COVID-19 symptoms | covid19.health.nz (external link) If you need advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If your symptoms get worse or you need urgent medical care, call your local healthcare provider or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 If you or the person you are caring for develops difficulty breathing, severe chest pain, fainting or becomes unconscious, call 111 immediately. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever came first. You can end your self-isolation 7 days after your symptoms started or you tested positive, whichever came first. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave self-isolation. You may receive a text message confirming your self-isolation period has ended. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school. Some people can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. Your Household Contacts can complete their isolation at the same time as you, as long as their Day 7 test was negative and they have no new or worsening symptoms. If they test positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. You do not need to isolate as a Household Contact for 90 days from when you first tested positive if someone else in your household gets COVID-19 during this time. The chance of you being reinfected with COVID-19 in the 90 days after testing positive is low. After you have had COVID-19 The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can co-ordinate extra support for you if you need it. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. Last updated: 13 June 2022 at 9:13 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. This page is for people who live in New Zealand and are travelling domestically. What to do if you test positive while visiting New Zealand from another country You could get COVID-19 or find out you are a Household Contact while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. If you test positive for COVID-19 If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Order a rapid antigen test (RAT) online and pick up from your nearest collection point. COVID-19 symptoms You should tell your accommodation provider if you have tested positive. They can make sure the property is safe for the next booking. More advice around temporary accommodation can be found on the Ministry of Health website: Guidance for isolating in temporary or holiday accommodation | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive or you are a Household Contact, you cannot: If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. If you have to self-isolate where you are, you will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. Care in the Community Getting help if you are self-isolating Check the COVID-19 Health Hub for advice. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Plan: You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate If you or your travelling companions can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate Last updated: 26 April 2022 at 10:33 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find COVID-19 information in your language, accessible formats and download posters and resources for your business or household. Information and advice translated into different languages. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Download our posters and resources for your home and business. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Our COVID-19 information is currently under review and will be updated as soon as possible. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. Last updated: 11 May 2022 at 11:15 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. An audio description adds an audio track to videos to describe essential information that is only presented visually on the screen. Audio descriptions help people who: Find out more about audio description (external link) Get audio descriptions of why we wear a mask or face covering on planes and public transport. Get audio descriptions of the NZ Vaccine Facts animated series. Get audio descriptions about Bluetooth tracing and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Last updated: 11 May 2022 at 11:05 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. Last updated: 17 January 2022 at 3:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Braille: Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. Last updated: 25 August 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. This page has lots of links to Easy Read information. Scroll down the page and click the boxes below to find more information. Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Easy Read: Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 3 June 2022 at 9:56 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand.        Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 13 June 2022 at 2:32 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 9:42 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand.   Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 3 June 2022 at 9:44 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 9 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find out about getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:13 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:14 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand.     Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 26 April 2022 at 7:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand.   Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 13 June 2022 at 2:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 3 June 2022 at 9:35 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Large print and Audio:  The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to, from and around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 9:36 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 9:35 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 9:43 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 10 May 2022 at 10:52 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 25 May 2022 at 8:46 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 10:20 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language: The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Find out what you need to do if you are planning to travel to, from or around New Zealand. Find out about support available through the pandemic in New Zealand Sign Language Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 9:45 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Find out about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand and how to get vaccinated Find out how to get proof of vaccination for use in New Zealand and when travelling overseas Find out about vaccinating your child against COVID-19 Last updated: 11 May 2022 at 11:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:09 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government no longer requires My Vaccine Pass to be used to access businesses, events and services. Businesses can still choose to require My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry if there are health and safety reasons for doing so. Some workers are still required to be vaccinated. Vaccinations and work Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:09 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:11 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 9:38 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out about COVID-19 symptoms and variants of the virus Find out when you need to wear a face mask Find out how your household can prepare for COVID-19 Last updated: 26 January 2022 at 1:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 7 June 2022 at 2:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:10 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:12 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:05 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive Find out how contact tracing works, and about the NZ COVID Tracer app Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:13 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:04 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 14 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Download posters and resources for your household and business to help everyone keep safe from COVID-19. You can view and download all our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz Download a printable table of the traffic light settings. Businesses and workplaces are no longer required to display a QR code poster but can choose to do so. Get your QR code poster (external link) (external link) Manage and reprint your QR code posters (external link) (external link) More information about NZ COVID Tracer QR codes | health.govt.nz (external link) A simplified version is available for disabled communities: There is no requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses can choose to check My Vaccine Pass if they would like to. If your business chooses to, you could display a poster to let people know: Find out more about My Vaccine Pass We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages Last updated: 25 May 2022 at 11:42 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo. Last updated: 23 May 2022 at 4:53 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga, ā, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he ngāwari noa ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakahaere i ēnei i te kāinga. Engari mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana te āwhina mēnā e hiahia ana koe. Last updated: 14 March 2022 at 4:54 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ka taea e te nuinga te noho pai nā runga i te āwhina a te whānau me ngā hoa. Engari ki te hiahia koutou ko tō whānau i ētahi atu āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, ka taea pea ētahi atu āwhina pēnei i te: Ka taea e te katoa te tono āwhina mēnā e hiahiatia ana - ehara i te mea me noho koe i runga i te penihana. Ka taea e koe te waea atu ki te waea oranga KOWHEORI mō te koreutu i te 0800 512 337 , 8am ki te 8pm, 7 rā i te wiki. Me whakapā tonu koe ki ō hoa me tō whānau, me ngā rōpū hapori e whai pānga ana ki a koe. Mā rātou e: Ina kino haere ō tohumate, ka hiahia rānei koe i ētahi tiakanga hauora uruhi, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora tūtata, ki a Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ina kino haere tō whakangā, te tangata rānei e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he mamae rānei te uma, e hemohemo haere ana, me tere te waea ki 111 . Tērā hoki he tautoko ā-pūtea mā te hunga e tika ana kia noho ki te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Tautoko ā-pūtea Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, e āwangawanga ana rānei mō tētahi atu, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. Rapua ngā waea āwhina ki te rapu tautoko Last updated: 14 March 2022 at 4:51 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga koe mēnā: Ka taea te noho taratahi i te kāinga, i tētahi wāhi noho tōtika rānei. Me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga mō te 7 rā i te iti rawa i a koe e whakaora mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Me tīmata ki te kaute i ngā rā e 7 mai i te rā kore (0). Ko te rā 0 koinā te rā i pā mai ai ō tohumate, i kitea rānei kei te pāngia koe e te mate (mēnā kāore ō tohumate). Ko te tikanga o te noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te katoa o te wā i whakaritea kia noho koe ki reira, hāunga mō ētahi pūtake whāiti kia wehe koe. Ā, me tūpato koe kia kore ai e pātata ki te hunga e noho tahi ai koe. Ngā tohutohu mō te noho taratahi: Mēnā kāore i te haumaru mōu kia noho taratahi i te kāinga, ka taea pea he wāhi noho atu anō mōu. Ka taea e koe tēnei te tono mā te puka tuihono. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, me wawe tonu tō noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te 7 rā mai i te rā i kitea kei te pāngia ia e te mate (i te rā rānei i pā mai ngā tohumate, ko te mea tuatahi o ēnei). Me noho koe ki te kāinga i a koe e noho taratahi ana, engari ehara i te mea me karo koe i ētahi atu o tō whare engari ia mēnā pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Me haere koe kia whakamātautauhia ina eke te tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 e noho tahi ana koe ki te rā 3 me te rā 7 o tōna mate. Ka āhei koe ki te whakamutu i tō noho taratahi i te rā tonu ka mutu te tangata tuatahi i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, mēnā ka whakaatu tō whakamātautau kāore koe i te mate i te rā 7, ā, kāore he tohumate hou, kino ake rānei. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia anō tētahi o tō kāinga e te mate, ka āhei tonu ērā atu o te whare te whakamutu tā rātau noho taratahi ina mutu taua tangata tuatahi, engari me kore katoa ōna tohumate, kua kitea rānei kua kore kē e pāngia e te mate. Engari, ki te pāngia ētahi o te kāinga e te mate, me tīmata anō tā rātau noho taratahi mō te 7 rā. Mēnā he Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe engari kāore koe i te noho tahi me te tangata kua pāngia e te mate, kāore koe e mate ki te noho taratahi engari anō mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ki te pā mai ngā tohumate, me mātua whakaritea he whakamātautau. I te mea he mea nui ngā ratonga hira mō ngā hiahia taketake o te tangata, he whakarato hanganga hira, he wāhanga hoki/rānei o ngā mekameka ratonga hira, ka taea e ā rātau kaimahi te toro i te Kaupapa Aweretanga Mō te Tāngata Whaipānga Tata. Ko ngā kaimahi kua werohia, kāore i te mate, kei ngā ratonga hira rēhita he whaipānga tata i te kāinga ki tētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 ka taea tonu te mahi, engari ia me whakaatu tō rātau whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere kāore rātau i te mate i mua i te tīmatanga o te rā, wāhanga mahi rānei kei te mahi rātau i te wā noho taratahi, me te whai i ngā tikanga hauora tauwhāiti. Ka āhei anake rātau ki te haere ki te mahi – kaua ki wāhi kē. Ka taea e ēnei kaimahi te tiki ngā kete whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere mai i te wāhi hei tiki atu. Te whakamātautau me te hoki ki te mahi i te wā Omikona | business.govt.nz (external link) Ka āhei tētahi pakihi, kaihokohoko takitahi rānei ki tētahi kaimahi he tangata whaipānga tata kei te wāhi mahi mēnā kāore ia i te pā ki ngā manuhiri, ā, me te noho ki te 'Rāhui Takitahi' i a ia i te mahi (me te haere atu me te hoki atu i te mahi). Me mātua whiwhi wero kano ārai mate te kaimahi, kāore ōna tohumate, ā, ka taea tonu te ū ki te 'rāhui takitahi' i a ia i te mahi (ahakoa kei roto, kei waho rānei). Ka āhei anake ia ki te haere ki te mahi – kaua ki wāhi kē. Rāhui Takitahi | business.govt.nz (external link) Ka āhei ngā ratonga manaaki waiwai, pērā i ngā mahi o te wharepaku, te horoi me te kai, ki te haere tonu. Mēnā ka kitea he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga ki tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, me mātua whakamahi ngā kaitiaki i ngā tikanga horoi pai me te noho wehe i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea. Mēnā kaore e taea tēnei, me mātua mau utauta whakamaru tangata pērā i ngā karapu maka noa me ngā ārai kanohi. Ngā kōrero mā ngā kaimahi tautoko (external link) Mēnā ka pā mai ki a koe, ki tētahi atu rānei e tiakina ana e koe ngā tohumate kino me wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . Ko ngā tohumate kino pea: Mēnā he kino ake tō mate, ā, me uru ki te hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i tō hoki ki te kāinga me te whai anō i ō mahi noa. Ka tirotirohia tēnei e ai ki te āhuatanga e tētahi mātanga hauora. Kāore he utu hauora mō te KOWHEORI-19. He maha ngā tāngata ka taea e rātau te noho taratahi i te kāinga me ngā āwhina mai i ngā hoa me te whānau, engari he āwhina kei reira mēnā kei te hiahia koe. Ngā tautoko mā ngā āwhina me ngā tāngata takitahi Ngā tautoko mā ngā pakihi | business.govt.nz (external link) He tautoko atu anō mēnā kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, kei te noho taratahi rānei Last updated: 14 March 2022 at 4:51 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Mēnā he pātai āu, e hiahia āwhina ana rānei, īmēra ki COVID19Brand@dpmc.govt.nz Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā momo rerekē o te huaketo Rapua ngā wā me mau maruhā koe Rapua he kōrero me pēhea tō whare, tō pakihi rānei e whakariterite mō te KOWHEORI-19 E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua ngā wā me mau maruhā koe Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o ngā pata i te wā e kōrero ana, e kata ana, e maremare ana, e matihe ana hoki te tangata. Ka hāngai hoki ki tēnei ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 engari e ora ana te āhua, otirā kāore he tohumate mārama. He wā anō, tē taea e ētahi tāngata te mau maruhā. He mea nui kia māhaki, ka atawhai Last updated: 18 February 2022 at 10:09 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko te tikanga pai, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare. Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. Hei ture ahuwhānui, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare.Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama e toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Last updated: 31 March 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Kia mahara koe ki tēnei āhuatanga. E whai āheinga tonu ana rātou ki ngā ratonga kai, kēmehi me ētahi atu ratonga. Mēnā e taea ana, ka akiakitia koe ki te mau i tētahi ārai kanohi. Ko te mau ārai kanohi kāore e hiahiatia: Kāore hoki koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā: E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mau i tētahi, ka taea e koe te tiki kāri awere. Ka taea e koe te whakaatu i tō kāri awere i ngā wā e hiahia ana. He kāri awere i ngā ārai kanohi (external link) Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 1:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā momo rerekē o te huaketo Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te horapa o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, he aha hoki ngā tohumate rerekē o te huaketo Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta, Omicron hoki. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. I tere te hora a te momo Delta puta noa i te ao Te Hunga e Pokea ana e te Delta: Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. He 64–95% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki te māuiui whai tohumate. Kua tata ki te 90–96% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō te karo i te whakaurunga ki te hohipera, i te māuiui taumaha rānei nā te whakapokenga Delta. I kitea tuatahitia te Omicron i te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2021, ā, i whakatauhia hei momo mōrearea e te World Health Organisation. Kua tere hora puta noa ki te ao, ā, e kitea ana i ngā whenua neke atu i te 70. E whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga tōmua he tūpono nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron i ērā o ngā momo o te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te Delta. E ako tonu ana mātou mō tēnei momo o te wheori. E whakaatu ana ngā pūrongo tōmua, ina whakatauritehia ki te Delta: E tohu ana ngā tātaritanga tōmua tērā ka puta anō he āraitanga i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te tahumaero ā-tohumate ka hua mai i te Omicron, engari ka heke haere tēnei āraitanga ā tōna wā. Ka nui ake te āraitanga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te pota āpiti. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te:  Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 1:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero me pēhea tō whare, tō pakihi rānei e whakariterite mō te KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero o ngā mahi ka taea e koe ki te whakariterite i tō whare mō te KOWHEORI-19 Me whakarite mahere mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ō kaimahi, ō kaiwhakarato, ō kiritaki rānei. Last updated: 25 February 2022 at 5:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Kei reira ētahi mahi māmā ka taea e ngā rangatira pakihi kia whāiti te hōrapa o te huaketo i waenga i ngā kaimahi, kiritaki me ētahi atu manuhiri. Me mātua whakarite kei te mārama koe, ā, ka whakatinanahia ngā whakaritenga mō tō pakihi i raro i te tikanga rama ikiiki. Rapu mōhio mō ngā rama ikiiki Whakamahia te utauta aromatawai werohanga kia mōhio ai mēnā me whakahaere pea ngā mahi i tō pakihi e te hunga kua werohia. Kei raro ētahi rāngai e ngā whakatau werohanga. Werohanga KOWHEORI-19 me te whai mahi | Employment NZ (external link) Ngā whakatau werohanga E paiherea ana ngā pakihi katoa ki te tiaki i ngā kaimahi me ētahi atu kua raru ā rātau mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 me ētahi atu mōrea ki tō rātau hauora me tō rātau haumaru. Me mātua whakarite kei te tino haumaru rawa atu tō pakihi, wāhi mahi rānei: Me takatū, me haumaru Te whaiwhai i te pātanga me te whakamātautau Ngā tautoko pūtea mā ngā pakihi Whakahauhau | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Me whakarite mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI ki tō wāhi, ngā kaimahi me ētahi atu pakihi e mahi ana koe. Me mōhio koe he aha ō kawenga hei rangatira pakihi. Me whai whakaaro pea koe ki ēnei: Ka whakarato tautoko pūtea te Utu Hōnea Wā Poto KOWHEORI-19 me te Kaupapa Tautoko Whakamatuatanga mā ngā pakihi. Ngā tautoko pūtea mā ngā pakihi Mēnā he tuku ratonga koe, hua rānei ki ētahi atu pakihi, me whakapā atu pea koe ki ō kiritaki ka tuari i ō mahere. Mā te mārama ki ā rātau mahere ka āwhina anō pea i a koe kia takatū ai ki ngā rerekētanga o nga tono, ngā wā, me pēhea rānei te whakahāngai i te āhua o tō tuku i ō ratonga me ō hua kia rite ai ki ngā tikanga e mahi nei rātau. Me whai whakaaro pea koe ki ēnei: Mēnā e whirinaki ana tō pakihi ki ngā hua, ngā ratonga rānei a ētahi atu pakihi, me kōrero koe ki a rātau mō ā rātau mahere mahi haere tonu, mahere tuarua hoki. Ka whai pānga pea ā rātau mahere ki āu ake. Ka hiahia pea koe ki te kōrero ki ngā kaiwhakarato: Me whai whakaaro ki te hunga e whirinaki ana koe e mahi tahi nei tō pakihi me te whiriwhiri i ngā upane ka taea e koe me taua kaiwhakarato kia mau ai ngā ratonga e hiahiatia ana, ngā rawa rānei, ki te pāngia rātau e te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whiwhi wero te tikanga pai rawa hei tiaki i ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te hunga 18 tau, pakeke atu rānei e āhei ana ki tētahi potanga whakakaha mēnā kua eke te 3 marama mai i tā rātau whiwhi i te potanga matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu mōhio mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Te kōrero ki ngā kaimahi mō te werohanga | Employment New Zealand (external link) Kāore e kore ka pāngia tētahi tangata e mōhio ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Kei reira te pūnaha hauora manaaki i ngā wā katoa ki te tiaki i te hunga hiahia āwhina, engari ko te nuinga o ngā tāngata ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e mate ki te uru ki te hōhipera, ā, ka pai noa iho te noho taratahi i te kāinga. Me noho ngā tāngata katoa ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tāngata i ō rātau whare ki te kāinga, ā, kia kaua e pāpā ki ētahi atu, tae atu ki ō rātau hoa, whānau hoki. Me whakatenatena i te tangata ki te hanga mahere mā te whakamahi i tētahi Rārangi Arowhai Takatū Mō te KOWHEORI-19. Me tikiake tētahi Rārangi Arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ka pā mai pea te ahotea i te whakahaere i ngā pānga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka hiahia tohutohu pea koe, ō hoa mahi, ō kaimahi rānei, he tangata noa iho rānei ki te kōrero – e wātea ana ngā āwhina. Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Last updated: 25 February 2022 at 5:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Kāore e kore ka kitea he kēhi tōrunga o te KOWHEORI-19 i tō hapori. Ka wātea tonu te pūnaha tiaki hauora mō te hunga e hiahia ana i tā mātou āwhina engari ko te nuinga o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, e kore e mate ki te noho ki te hōhipera, ā, ka āhei ki te noho taratahi haumaru i te kāinga. Me noho i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi i te whakamātautau e whakaatu ana kua pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 me ērā hoki e noho ana i tō rātou kāinga, ā, me kaua e whakapā ki ētahi atu, tae ake ki te whānau. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ko te tangata, ngā whakawhiti kōrerorero, ngā hononga me te mōhio me aha. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ka taea e tō whānau me te hapori te āwhina tētahi i tētahi mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Whakamahia te rārangi i raro nei ki te whakarite kōrerorero, ki te whakatau hoki he pēhea nei tō rite ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka whakarite mahere mō tō kāinga. Whakaritea ka aha koe mēnā ka māuiui tētahi Tirohia ngā mea e hiahiatia ana e koe hei āwhina i a koe me te hunga kei tō taha Me mātua whakarite kia mōhio ngā tino tāngata me aha rātou Kei roto tātou katoa i tēnei tū āhua, ā, ka puta tahi tātou i tēnei tū āhua Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 1:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. Kimihia ngā mōhiohio mō te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki hei te wā o te urutā KOWHEORI-19. Kei te hiahia tātou katoa ki te kai me ngā mea waiwai pērā i te rongoā i ngā wā o te rāhuitanga KOWHEORI-19, nō reira kaua e whakatiki i a koe. Kei tēnei pārongo ngā mōhiohio mō ngā huarahi maha e whiwhi kai ai, e whiwhi mea waiwai ai koe. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. Last updated: 1 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Rapua he mōhiohio, he tohutohu hoki mō te whakahaere whakamātautau, kia hea mahia ai, ā, ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te mate Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te whaiwhai pānga, ā, me te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te whaiwhai pānga, ā, me te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer Mā te whaiwhai i te pātanga ka taea e mātau te kimi te hunga kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, tukuna haumarutia ō mōhiohio i runga ipurangi ki Te Manatū Hauora hei whakamōhio i ētahi atu me pēhea te tirotiro i ngā tohumate. Last updated: 18 February 2022 at 10:11 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Mēnā ka pāngia te tangata e te KOWHEORI-19, me kimi mātau i te hunga i whai pānga pea ki te mate. Koinei te whaiwhai i te pātanga. Ka āwhina te whaiwhai i te pātanga i hea e pāngia ana te tangata e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ko wai atu te hunga i pāngia pea. He tāngata whaipānga ēnei. He Tangata Pānga ā-Kāinga koe mēnā e noho ana koe me tētahi tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. He Tangata Pānga ā-Kāinga: Ahakoa kua werohia koe, kāore rānei, ko tāu me: Ngā tāngata pānga ā-kāinga Noho taratahi i te kāinga Ka aha mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia au e te mate? He Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe mēnā i pā koe ki tētahi tangata e pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e hopuhopu ana te mate i a ia. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi koe mēnā he Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe. Me tirotiro i a koe anō mō ngā tohumate, ā, ki te pā mai, me haere kia whakamātautauhia. Ngā tāngata whaipānga tata Mēnā kua kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 me whakamōhio atu i hea koe, ā, i tūtaki koe ki a wai. Ka taea e koe tēnei te mahi kia haumaru mā tētahi puka whaiwhai i te pātanga. Ka mahia tēnei i tua atu i tētahi uiui waea. Mēnā he nama waea kawe whaimana tāu, ka whiwhi pātuhi koe me te hononga me te waehere whakauru, e oti ai tēnei puka. Mā te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e koe te tuari: Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer me te whakataki Hono Iarere, ka taea e koe te tuari tō rātaka matihiko me ō raraunga Hono Iarere. He tere ake te whakaoti i te puka i tētahi uiui — he tata ki te 30 meneti te roa. Mēnā kāore e tīmataria e koe te puka i roto i te 24 haora, ka waea atu he tangata ki a koe ki te whakaoti i te uiui kēhi i runga waea. Te whakamahi i te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga Kua kore te whakaritenga ki te matawai, kia whakaaturia rānei e tētahi pakihi te pānui waehere QR, te tiaki pūkete ā-ture rānei. Engari, ka taea e koe te whakamahi tonu te taupānga NZ Tracer kia mau ai he whakaaturanga o ō haerenga, te whiwhi rānei i ngā pānui Hono Iarere. Mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pānui karaka ki tō taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pānui, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu kei te pānui. He kirimuna ngā pānui Hono Iarere. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pānui, kāore koe e mōhio nā wai i tuku te pānui ki a koe, i hea koe e pā ana ki te tangata mate. Mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, kei a koe te tikanga ki te tukuatu i ō raraunga Hono Iarere ki te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga. Last updated: 8 April 2022 at 12:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Mā te tuari i ngā taipitopito mō ngā wāhi i haere koe kia tere ai te tautuhi i ngā wāhi tino mōrea me whiwhi tautoko pea hei tiaki i te hunga e tino mōrea ana i tō tātau hapori. Mā te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e koe te tuari: Ina kitea kei te pāngia koe e tētahi whakamātautau PCR kei te mate koe, kua tukuna atu rānei e koe tō otinga RAT e whakaatu ana kua pāngia koe, ka tukuna he hono ki a koe me te uru ki te waehere mā te patowaea mai i te tau 2328 hei whakakī i tēnei puka. He tata ki te 30 meneti te roa mō te whakakī i tēnei puka. Mēnā kei te raru tō whakakī i tēnei puka, īmēra atu ki help@tracingform.min.health.nz waea atu rānei ki 0800 555 728 . He haumaru te rokiroki a Te Manatū Hauora i ēnei mōhiohio. Ka whakamahia anake mō te whaiwhai i te pātanga me te tautuhi i ngā tautoko hauora tāpiri ka hiahia pea koe. Ka tuarihia anake ngā mōhiohio ki ngā tari kei te āwhina me ēnei mahi. Pānuitia te tauākī tūmataitinga (external link) o te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19. Ina tīmataria e koe tēnei tukanga, me whakaoti e koe tēnei puka i te nōhanga kotahi mā te pūrere kotahi me te pūtirotiro kia kore ai e ngaro ngā raraunga kua tāurua kētia. Last updated: 8 April 2022 at 12:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. Last updated: 8 April 2022 at 12:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero mō te rapu whakamātautau, ngā momo whakamātautau e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa, ā, me ngā wāhi e taea ana he whakamātautau. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Tērā pea me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei, mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana, mēnā e hāereere ana koe, mēnā rānei e herea ana koe e tō tūranga mahi kia whakamātauria. Ngā āhuatanga mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka uru ki tēnei te whiwhi i ō hua, te whaiwhai pānga, me aha koe, ā, me te tautoko ka whiwhi koe. Last updated: 25 February 2022 at 12:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] Ko te tikanga, he kore utu ngā whakamātautau mā te katoa — ehara i te mea me kirirarau koe o Aotearoa, kainoho rānei, ā, e kore koe e utu mō ngā whakamaimoatanga ina pāngia koe e te mate. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu mō te whakamātautau ki te kuhu ki tētahi atu whenua, mō ngā take whakamātautau tūtei e te rāngai pakihi, otirā kei waho tēnei i ngā here o te ture. Te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, mō te hāereere i te ao Ko ētahi take o te whiwhi whakamātautau mēnā: Ina whakaaro koe me whiwhi whakamātautau, waea atu a Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Rapu kōrero hei āwhea whiwhi whakamātautau ai Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i tētahi Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment) kia taea tonu te utu i a koe. Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (external link) I Aotearoa e toru ngā momo whakamātautau mō te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19: PCR, Hūware me te Ākipaturopi tere. Ko te PCR (nasopharyngeal rānei) ngā whakamātautau tika rawa, ā, ka taea i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori, ngā hōhipera me ngā pokapū hauora. Kei waenga i te 2-5 rā te roa. He pani ki te wāhanga whakamuri o te ihu me te korokoro. He āhua rite te rākau pani ki tētahi miro pūkohu iti engari he roa ake te rākau. E wātea ana ēnei whakamātautau ki ngā kaimahi rohenga whenua. Ka taea te kohi ā-whaiaro i ngā tīpakohanga hūware me te whakataka atu ki tētahi wāhi kohinga, ka taea rānei te mahi i mua i tētahi kaimahi hauora. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. He nui ake te whakamahia o ēnei i te wā e nui ana ngā pānga. Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 1:14 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. E wātea ana ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere ki te iwi whānui mō te koreutu mēnā ka pupū ake he tohumate, he pānga rānei nō tētahi pānga ā-kāinga. Māu tonu e whakahaere i ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere, mā tētahi atu rānei. Me pūrongo i ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere (RAT) mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe, kāore rānei. Ka taea tēnei mā te ipurangi mā My Covid Record, mā te waea rānei i te waea āwhina. Last updated: 2 April 2022 at 4:18 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ehara i te mea me whakamā mēnā ka whakaatu te whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe - ka pā tēnei ki ngā tāngata katoa. Kāore he aha ki te KOWHEORI-19 ko wai ka whakapokea. Ki te pāngia koe, me noho taratahi i te kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi rānei, māna, he rerekē ngā tohutohu a tētahi kaiwhakahaere tiakanga. Me pupuri hoki koe i tō waea, ā, me whakautu hoki. Mēnā ka tohu ake he whakamātautau PCR kei te pāngia koe, ka whakamōhiotia koe ki tō hua mai i te nama ōkawa 2328. Kei roto tētahi hononga ki tētahi puka tuihono hei whakakī māhau. Ka āhua 10 ki te 20 mineti te roa ki te whakakī i te puka me te tono i ō mōhiohio hauora, ō pānga ā-kāinga, me ngā wāhi mōrearea nui i tae atu ai pea koe. Mēnā ka tohu ake he whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe, me tuku i tō hua ki My Covid Record. Mēnā e hiahia āwhina ana koe me waea i te 0800 222 478 . Mēnā e whiwhi ana koe i tētahi RAT e āta tirohia ana i tētahi pokapū whakamātautau hapori, tētahi atu kaiwhakarato hauora rānei, mā ngā kaimahi e whakauru i tō hua ki te raraunga matatapu a Te Manatū Hauora me My Covid Record. Ka tukuna hoki ki a koe tētahi pātuhi mai i te nama ōkawa 2328, kei roto nei tētahi hononga ki tētahi puka tuihono mō ngā mōhiohio hauora, whaiwhai pānga hoki. Ehara i te mea me whakaū ngā RAT e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe ki tētahi whakamātautau PCR, māna he rerekē ngā tohutohu. Ka rerekē anō ngā tohutohu o ngā whakamātautau i runga anō i te āhua o te momo, ā, he mea nui tonu te whai i ngā tohutohu a te kaihanga. E wātea ana he mōhiohio anō, me ngā tohutohu o te whakahaere RAT, i te pae tukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi | Tere Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Takiuru me te pūrongo i ō hua | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) Me noho taratahi i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi whakamātautau e tohu ana kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka tīmata tō wā taratahi mai i te rā i tīmata ai ō tohumate, i te rā rānei ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hua whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe, mēnā kāore ō tohumate. Me noho taratahi hoki te hunga katoa kei te kāinga e noho ana. Ka wātea pea ētahi atu wāhi noho mēnā kāore e taea e koe te noho haumaru i te wāhi e noho ana koe. Ka taea e koe te tohu i tēnei mā te puka tuihono ka whakakīhia e koe. I muri i te wā noho taratahi, mēnā kua kore katoa ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ka taea e koe te puta i te noho taratahi.Ehara i te mea me whakamātau anō koe. Ko ō hoa noho kāinga me whai whakamātautau e tohu ana kāore i te pāngia e te mate, i ngā rā i mua o te putanga i te noho taratahi. Noho taratahi i te kāinga Mēnā e hiahia tohutohu hauora ana koe, tirohia ngā rauemi tuihono i te tuatahi. Ngā rauemi tuihono (external link) Ina kino haere ō tohumate, ka hiahia rānei koe i ētahi tiakanga hauora kōhukihuki, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora tūtata, ki a Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ina kino haere tō whakangā, te tangata rānei e tiakina ana e koe, he mamae rānei te uma, e hemohemo haere ana, me tere te waea ki 111 . Ka rerekē pea ngā kaiwhakapā mō te tautoko ā-hauora puta noa i te motu. Ko tō kaiwhakapā ko tētahi tangata takitahi pea, ko tētahi rōpū nō tō whare tākuta, tō kaiwhakarato hauora matua, tō ratonga hauora ā-hapori rānei. Te tautoko hauora i tō rohe - COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Mēnā ka hiahia rongoā koe, whakapā atu ki tō tākuta, tō kēmehi pātata rānei kia tukuna haumarutia ai ō rongoā ki tō kāinga. Ko te hunga e noho ana i tō taha, ka kīia he Pānga ā-Kāinga. Ahakoa kua whiwhi kano ārai mate, karekau rānei, me: Mēnā e tohu ana ngā whakamātautau a ngā Pānga ā-Kāinga kāore i te pāngia, ā, kāore hoki he tohumate, ka taea e rātou te whakaoti i te wā noho taratahi i te wā ōrite ki a koe. Ina tohua ake tō whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me whakakī koe i tētahi puka tuihono mō te whaiwhai pānga me ngā mōhiohio hauora. Mēnā he nama waea kawe whaimana tāu, ka whiwhi pātuhi koe me te hononga me te waehere whakauru, e oti ai tēnei puka. Mēnā kāore ō waea kawe, e hiahia ana rānei koe i te āwhina ki te whakakī i te puka, waea ki 0800 555 728 . Mā te puka whaiwhai pānga KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei koe ki te tiri haumaru: Ka hono hoki ki tētahi tono āwhina oranga ki Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora, me ētahi atu wāhi noho mēnā kāore i te haumaru tō noho i tō kāinga ake. Mā tēnei puka, ka tiri koe i tō rātaka Nz Covid Tracer, me ngā raraunga Hono Iarere. He tere ake te whakaoti i te puka, i te mahi i runga i te waea - tata ki te 20 meneti noa iho. Kia whiwhi i a koe te pātuhi, ka taea e koe te tīmata i roto i te 72 hāora. Ki te kore koe e tuku i te puka i roto i te 72 hāora, ka waea pea tētahi tangata me te whakaoti i te uiui kēhi i runga i te waea. Puka whaiwhai pānga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) Last updated: 14 March 2022 at 4:48 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei ōu, me whai whakamātautau. Mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio, mā tētahi mātanga hauora koe e whakamōhio ake. Mēnā kāore ō tohumate, me whiwhi noa koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā kua tohutohutia koe e tētahi āpiha hauora - hei tauira, mēnā he pānga ā-kāinga koe o tētahi i whakatauria ai kei te pāngia. Ngā tohumate COVID-19 E whiwhi ai koe i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, waea ki: Kimihia ngā wāhi whakamātautau Mēnā e noho ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau. E kore ngā pānga tata e mate ki te rapu whakamātautau, māna ka kitea he tohumate. Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tō tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana, i mua i te ekenga. Me whiwhi i te whakamātautau i roto i te 72 hāora i mua o tō haeretanga. Me whiwhi te nuinga o ngā tāngata haere ki Aotearoa i tētahi hua whakamātautau i mua o te haere, e kī ana kāore e pāngia ana. Ko te tikanga he whakamātautau: Me whiwhi tonu koe i tētahi whakamātautau ahakoa he kano ārai mate tāu mō te KOWHEORI-19. Rapua anō he kōrero mō ngā whakamātautau i mua i te kuhunga ki Aotearoa Mēnā e haere ana koe i Aotearoa ki tētahi atu whenua, tirohia ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe mā te whakapā atu ki tō rātau kāinga māngai kāwanatanga, whare māngai kāwanatanga rānei i Aotearoa. Mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki te kōti, ā, kāore ō tohumate, engari kāore anō kia whiwhi i tētahi kano ārai mate, me whakaatu koe i tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. E herea ana ētahi tāngata ki te whiwhi i ngā whakamātautau auau nā te mōrearea e pā ana ki tō rātou tūranga mahi. Ka uru ki tēnei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 me te tūpono tuku haere i taua mate ki ētahi atu (hei tauira, ngā kaimahi hauora, kaimahi rohenga whenua hoki). Mā tō kaituku mahi koe e kōrero atu mēnā e herea ana koe ki te whiwhi whakamātautau. Ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19? Last updated: 14 March 2022 at 4:48 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand.  Last updated: 14 September 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. I te Kākāriki, he whāiti te rere ā-hapori, ā, e rite ana tō tātou pūnaha hauora ki te urupare atu. I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Last updated: 8 April 2022 at 10:22 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. I te Kākāriki kāore he herenga mō te mau maruhā, te matawai, ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i ngā wāhi i rō whare, i waho rānei, ngā whakaritenga kano ārai (māna kua whakamanahia mō tō mahi), te hāereere rānei. Heoi anō, e tūtohua ana me ū tonu ki ngā ritenga hauora kia noho haumaru ai. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, me whakamātauria koe. Mēnā kua pāngia koe, me whai i ngā herenga hauora katoa, tae atu ki te noho taratahi. Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? [PDF, 108 KB] Te whakamātautau mō te KOWHEORI-19 Koinei te wā pai ki te whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19. Whakaritea tētahi mahere mā tō kāinga, pakihi rānei mō te tūpono ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea hoki te tikiake i tētahi Arowhai Takatū. Me whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19 Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tōu ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te tangata takitahi me ngā whānau Last updated: 23 May 2022 at 4:42 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. I te Karaka, tērā ētahi herenga hei tiaki i ō tātou hapori. Ka taea tonu e koe ngā mahi o ia rā, pēnei i: Kāore he tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i rō whare, i waho hoki i te Karaka. Ko te mau maruhā tonu tētahi āhuatanga matua i te Karaka. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tautuhinga Karaka i te reo Ingarihi Ko te tikanga pai, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare. Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata hauā, raruraru hauora rānei, te mau maruhā.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Ka taea e koe te whakahaere, te haere rānei ki tētahi huihuinga i te Karaka, hei tauira, te tūtakitaki hoa, te whakahaere mārena, te haere ki te karakia. Kāore he tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i rō whare, i waho hoki i te Karaka. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā taiao manaaki, hokohoko, mātauranga me ngā wāhi mahi. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Karaka. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi rohe e rerekē ana ngā whakaritenga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e ngaro atu ana koe i te kāinga, me noho taratahi i taua wāhi e noho nā koe. Me whakarite koe i tētahi mahere ina tūpono noa tēnei āhuatanga. Māu tonu e utu i tō noho ki te noho taratahi i a koe e hāereere ana. E herea ana te mau maruhā i runga i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui katoa, i ngā ratonga waka tiri hoki, māna, ka taea e koe te noho i waho (hei tauira, te rahoraho o te kaipuke). Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tōu ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te tangata takitahi me ngā whānau Last updated: 8 April 2022 at 10:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. I te Whero, tērā ētahi herenga hei tiaki i ō tātou hapori. Ka taea tonu e koe ngā mahi o ia rā, pēnei i: Tērā ētahi tepenga mō te maha o te tangata mō ētahi kaupapa kei rō whare. I pēnei ai nā te mea e mōhio ana mātou he tere hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 i rō whare. Ko te mau maruhā tonu tētahi āhuatanga matua i te Whero. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tautuhinga Whero i te reo Ingarihi Hei ture ahuwhānui, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare.Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama e toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, ka kore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Whero. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi rohe e rerekē ana ngā whakaritenga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e ngaro atu ana koe i te kāinga, me noho taratahi i taua wāhi e noho nā koe. Me whakarite koe i tētahi mahere ina tūpono noa tēnei āhuatanga. Māu tonu e utu i tō noho ki te noho taratahi i a koe e hāereere ana. E herea ana te mau maruhā i runga i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui katoa, i ngā ratonga waka tiri hoki, māna, ka taea e koe te noho i waho (hei tauira, te rahoraho o te kaipuke). Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tō ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau Last updated: 8 April 2022 at 11:17 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru Me aha koe mēnā kei te whakarite koe ki te wehe i Aotearoa. E tuwhera haere ana ngā roherohenga o Aotearoa puta noa i te 2022, me te kore anō e mate ki te noho taratahi i te taenga mai. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi e whakahau ana mātau kia tirotirohia e koe ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe. Me tirotiro: Ko te whakarite a te maha o ngā whenua me noho taratahi te hunga haere i te taenga atu, me whakaatu tohu o te werohanga, he tohu rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e whakaatu ana kāore koe i te mate i mua i te haerenga. Rēhita me SafeTravel. Mēnā ka rēhita koe, ka whiwhi whakamōhiotanga koe mō ngā huringa ki ngā tohutohu haerenga. Rēhitatia ō taipitopito ki a SafeTravel (external link) Kua āhei ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau kua whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa ki te tono ki tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. He 1-2 meneti te roa mō te tono i tō tiwhikete, ā, ka īmērahia atu koe i roto i te 24 haora. Ka taea e koe te tiki tō Tiwhikete mā Taku Pūkete Kowheori. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te uru ki tēnei ratonga, waea atu ki 0800 222 478 . Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E herea ana e ētahi whenua kia whakaaturia he otinga whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 kāore koe i te mate i mua i tō wehenga. Tirohia ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe mā te whakapā atu ki tō rātau kāinga māngai kāwanatanga, whare māngai kāwanatanga rānei i Aotearoa. Ētahi atu tohutohu haerenga atu anō kei Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Last updated: 15 February 2022 at 3:36 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. I ngā tautuhinga pūnaha rama toru katoa, ka taea e koe te hāereere ki ngā wāhi katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te take. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tētahi wāhi e rerekē ana te tautuhinga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā ture mō taua wāhi. Hei tauira, mēnā ka haere koe mai i te Karaka ki Whero, me whai koe i ngā ture mō tētahi rohe Whero. Ko te tikanga, e kore koe e mate ki te kawe i tētahi Tohu Ārai Mate, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei ki te hāereere. Tērā pea ka hiahia ētahi umanga kawe tangata(hei tauira, ngā rererangi, ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa) kia whakaatu koe i te Tohu Ārai Mate, i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 pānga kore rānei. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi Tohu Ārai Mate koe, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei i te wā e haere ana mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui. Me kaua e haere mēnā kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi, e tatari ana rānei mō ngā hua o tētahi whakamātautau. Mō ngā rama toru My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ngā whakamātautau I mua i tō haerenga, me whakarite me aha koe mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e haere ana. Me uru ki tō mahere Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ina māuiuitia koe, ka whakaraerae rānei koe ki te KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e ngaro ana i te kāinga, me: Ki te tohu ake tō whakamātautau e pāngia ana koe, ka whakapā atu tētahi mātanga hauora ki a koe. Ka taea e koe te kōrerorero i ngā āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, ā, mēnā he haumaru anō mōu ki te hoki ki te kāinga. E kore e taea e koe te hoki mā te rererangi, te hautū waka ki tawhiti mehemea me moe mō te pō, me haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui rānei. Ka taea anake e koe te hoki ki te kāinga ki te noho taratahi mēnā e haumaru ana taua mahi. Kia mahara ake ki te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi i tae koe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, me tū tīrara. Ina kore e taea e koe te hoki haumaru atu ki te kāinga, me noho tonu koe i te wāhi kei konā koe.Ka wātea tonu ki a koe te tautoko ki te noho taratahi, hei wāhi o te hōtaka Care in the Community. Me whakamōhio koe i te kaipupuri/kaiwhakahaere o tō wāhi noho mēnā he pānga tata koe o tētahi kēhi, mēnā rānei koe i whakahoki i tētahi whakamātautau e tohu ana kua pāngia koe. He aha ngā tūmanakohanga i a koe e noho taratahi ana I a koe e hāereere ana, me mau ārai kanohi koe: E whakatenatenahia ana hoki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā ka wehe koe i te kāinga. Kua whakaturehia te mau ārai kanohi hoki i ētahi wāhi, i runga anō i ētahi o ngā tautuhinga rama toru. Me mātua mōhio koe ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i tō haerenga. Hei aukati te horapatanga anamata o te KOWHEORI-19, me whaiwhai i ngā pānga o te hunga whakaraerae ki te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka wāwāhi i te hono o te rerenga. Mā te kapo ake i ngā nekenekehanga o te tangata tātou e āwhina ki te mahi wawe, mahi whāomo i tēnei. Me whaiwhai i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te tikiake i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i te App Store (external link) , i Google Play (external link) rānei, mā te whakamahi rānei i tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer. Tīkina ake tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] Rapua ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki te whaiwhai pānga Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Last updated: 25 January 2022 at 9:44 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. E haere ai koe ki Aotearoa, me tutuki i a koe ētahi herenga. Ko ngā hipanga i raro nei e whakamārama ana he aha ngā taunakitanga hei whakaatu māhau, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. He tere te panoni o ngā tautuhinga - mā Immigration New Zealand e tuku i ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Te haere ki Aotearoa | Immigration New Zealand (external link) Ka taea e ngā kirirarau o Aotearoa me ētahi atu tāngata e māraurau ana te kuhu mai ki Aotearoa, ā, me te whakamātautau anō i a koe i tō taenga mai. Ki te tiro mēnā e māraurau ana koe, haere ki te pae tukutuku a Immigration New Zealand. Ko te nuinga o ngā tāngata haere ki Aotearoa me whiwhi i ngā pota katoa o tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia, ahakoa tērā ētahi aweretanga. I mua i te haere, me tiro kei te mana tonu tō uruwhenua. Tērā pea me tono koe i tētahi New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Tirohia mēnā e māraurau ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Ngā herenga kano ārai mate  me ngā kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia Me tono i tētahi NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Tāpuitia tō haerenga ki Aotearoa. Tirohia te kaupapahere a te kaikawe mō te kano ārai mate, ngā whakakorenga me ngā whakahokinga moni, hua noa kei mate koe ki te panoni i ō maheretanga. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te hoko i te inihua haere, hua noa kei pāngia ō whakaritenga hāereere. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te tāpui i te wāhi noho hāngai mō te noho taratahi i te kāinga, ina hua ake tērā āhuatanga. Me whakaoti ngā tāngata haere katoa, i tētahi Whakapuakanga Hāereere o Aotearoa i mua i te haere ki Aotearoa. Kia oti ana, ka tukuna ki a koe tētahi Traveller Pass. Kia wawe tonu te whakarite i tō whakapuakanga. Ka taea e koe te whakakī haere i te 28 rā i mua i tō haerenga. Tīmataria tō whakapuakanga hāereere (external link) Rau mōhiohio whakapuakanga tangata haere (external link) Me whiwhi te nuinga o ngā tāngata haere i tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua o te haere, e kī ana kāore e pāngia ana. Me whakarite i te tutukitanga o ō tuhinga whakamātautau i mua o te haere, i ngā paerewa o Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tā i te tātauira kei raro nei ki te whakarite kei te tuku ngā mātanga hauora e tirotiro ana i tō whakamātautau, e whakarato ana rātou i ngā mōhiohio e hiahiatia ana. Tērā ētahi take e kore pea e ētahi tāngata e hiahia i tētahi whakamātautau i mua o te haere. Ka taea e koe te rapu i te rārangi o ngā take hāpono mō tētahi aweretanga whakamātautau i mua o te haere i raro nei. Ka hiahiatia pea kia whakaatu koe i ngā taunakitanga o tō aweretanga. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā herenga o te whakamātautau i mua o te haere Tīkina ake he tātauira whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua o te haere [PDF, 190 KB] E oti ai tō whakapuakanga haere, me whakarato koe i: Tirohia anō ngā taipitopito kua tāurua e koe ki te whakapuakanga hāereere ki te whakarite mēnā e rite ana ki ō tuhinga ōkawa. Me whakaatu koe i tō Traveller Pass ina taki-mai koe ki te taunga rererangi, ā, me whakaatu hoki ki Te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa. Ka taea te tā, te roki rānei ki tō pūrere kawe. Me kawe tonu koe i ngā pepa hāngai kua oti i a koe te tuku ake ki te Whakapuakanga Hāereere o Aotearoa. Aratohu ki te tuku ake i ō taunakitanga (external link) Ka tonoa koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 āu, e te kaimahi waka rererangi. Mēnā e hāngai ana, me whiwhi koe i tō: Mā te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa e manatoko i tō hītori hāereere, tō hua whakamātautau i mua o te wehenga, tō tūnga kano ārai mate, tō Traveller Pass, me ētahi atu herenga uru mai. Ka āhua roa pea te wā, i a koe e whakawhiti ana mā roto i te taunga rererangi. I te Haumaru koiora, ka tukuna ki a koe tētahi pūhera whakatau. Kei roto i tō pūhera whakatau: Whakaotihia ō whakamātautau, ā, ka tuku atu i ō hua, i runga anō i ngā tohu. Ngā whakaritenga whakamātautau i muri i te taenga ki Aotearoa Last updated: 23 May 2022 at 4:52 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate Rapu me pēhea te whiwhi taunakitanga o ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa i te wā e whakawhiti ana ki tāwāhi Rapua he kōrero mō te tuku kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti hei ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19 E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti o ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei āhea whiwhi i tētahi, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi. Rapua ngā wāhi e taea ai e koe ngā mōhiohio pono mō te KOWHEORI-19 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 16 tau, e māraurau ana koe ki te pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, ka taea e koe te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i ō pota matua. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea he whakature ngā pota āpiti, ā, kāore e hiahiatia ana e riro ai i a koe he Tohu Ārai Mate. Ki te whiwhi koe i tētahi pota āpiti, ka tāpiritia atu ki My Covid Record, ā, ka taea e koe te hanga i tētahi atu Tohu. Mēnā kua pāngia kētia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 me tatari mō te toru marama i muri i te rā o tō whakamātautau e tohu aha kei te pāngia koe, i mua i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i tētahi pota āpiti mā te: Book My Vaccine (external link) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa mō ngā pota āpiti, ahakoa i whiwhi koe i tētahi kano ārai mate rerekē i āu pota i mua. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer E wātea ana te pota āpiti AstraZeneca ināianei i te toru marama i muri i te pota tuarua, engari me whai tūtohu rongoā. Ka taea e koe te whai tūtohu rongoā i tō tākuta mariu i mua i tō toronga, mai i tētahi whare haumanu kano ārai mate AstraZeneca rānei - engari kāore e taea e ngā whare haumanu katoa te tuku i tētahi tūtohu rongoā. He koreutu te toro atu ki te tākuta mō tētahi tūtohu rongoā pota āpiti AstraZeneca. Te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca Ahakoa he pai tonu te tiaki a ngā potanga e rua mai i tētahi mate kino o ngā momo KOWHEORI-19 Delta me te Omicron mō tētahi wā, ko te tikanga he kaha ake te tiaki a te pota āpiti i a koe. E whakaatu ana ngā whakaaturanga onāianei i tō kaha ārai mai i te whakapokenga i te hekenga haeretanga o te kano ārai mate matua i roto i te wā. Ka āwhina te whiwhi kano ārai mate ‘tāpiri’ i muri i tētahi potanga matua hei āwhina ki te whakakaha i tō ārai mate mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko tā te pota āpiti he whakaheke i tō tūpono pānga ki te mate taumaha i te KOWHEORI-19, o te uru rānei ki te hōhipera. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te pota matua i tāwāhi, ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri mai i tō werohanga whakamutunga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota whakamutunga kua whiwhi koe. E whakahautia ana he pota matua tuatoru mā te hunga awhikiri pahara. He rerekē tēnei i te pota āpiti. Ko te hunga e māraurau ana ki te pota matua tuatoru, ka āhei hoki ki te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i te werohanga pota matua tuatoru mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau. Mēnā he pakeke ake i te 16, te 17 tau rānei ka taea tētahi pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i te pota matua tuatoru. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te pota matua tuatoru mēnā he awhikiri pahara tōu (external link) He ōrite ngā pānga kino o ngā pota āpiti ki ērā o ngā pota matua o te kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko te mamae, te whero o te kiri, te kōpuku, i te wāhi wero, te ānini, te paipairuaki me te ngenge, ruha rānei. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā pānga kino (external link) Last updated: 4 May 2022 at 9:17 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko te kano ārai mate matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Engari e wātea ana te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Astra Zeneca ki te katoa kei tua i te 18 tau te pakeke e hiahia ana i tētahi whiringa kē, kāore rānei e āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer. He kano ārai mate kawe huaketo (viral vector). Kāore he huaketo SARS-CoV-2 i roto i te kano ārai mate, nō reira e kore koe e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 i tēnei kano ārai mate. Me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca Me tatari koe mō te whā wiki, neke atu rānei, e āhei ai koe ki tō pota tuarua. Me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate e pai ake ai tō whakamarutanga. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . Ka whakaatu ake a Book My Vaccine i tētahi rārangi ingoa o ngā pokapū kano ārai mate e wātea ana te AstraZeneca. Me kaua koe e whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca mēnā: Ka werohia te kano AstraZeneca ki roto i tētahi uaua (i te wāhanga whakarunga o te ringa). Ka taea te werohanga tuarua te tuku i waenga i te 4 ki te 12 wiki i muri i te werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te AstraZeneca mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Ka māraurau koe mō te pota āpiti, e 3 marama i muri i tō whiwhi i te pota tuarua. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He iti rawa ngā raraunga o te whakamahinga o te AstraZeneca e te hunga e hapū ana, nō reira ka noho ko Pfizer tonu te kōwhiringa mariunga o te kano ārai mate mō tēnei hunga. Mēnā kei te hāpu, kei te whāngote rānei koe, e whakaaro ana rānei e hapū ana koe, tēnā kōrero ki tō tākuta mēnā ko AstraZeneca te kano ārai mate e tika ana mōu. Ka whakahoi te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i te pūnaha awhikiri o te tinana. Mā tēnei ka whakaputa paturopi te tinana hei āwhina ki te whawhai i te huaketo. Ka āwhina tēnei ki te whakamaru i a koe i te KOWHEORI-19 i te anamata. E kore e hua mai te KOWHEORI-19 i ngā kaiwhakaranu o tēnei kano ārai mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, he 81% te parenga a te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaatu ana hoki i te whaihuatanga 80%, piki atu rānei, mai i te urunga ki te hōhipera i muri i te pota tuatahi. Mō te parenga tino pai rawa atu, me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua. Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua āta aromatawaitia te haumarutanga o te AstraZeneca e Medsafe. Kāore i pokanoa te tuku whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te pota tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. He pānga kino tino mokorea ngā tepetoto o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. I pā ki te kotahi o ia 100,000 tāngata kua whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: Kua rīpoatatia ētahi kēhi tino mokorea o te Mate Ia-Tōiti Papī (CLS). Ko ngā tohumate o tēnei mate ko te pupuhitanga wawe o ngā ringa me ngā waewae, te taumahatanga ohorere me te pōātinitini. Kua rīpoatatia hoki ngā kēhi tino mokorea o te mate Guillain-Barré (GBS). Ko te GBS he mate awhikiri mokorea, e pā ai te mate mumura ioio. Ko ētahi pea o ngā tohumate ko te mamae, te matangerengere, te ruha o ngā uaua o ngā ringa me ngā waewae, ā, tērā pea ka ahu atu ki te uma me te kanohi. Ina pā ētahi o ēnei tohumate ki a koe, me wawe te haere ki te tākuta. Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Te aromatawai me te whakamana i ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Ngā pānga kino me ngā tauhohenga o ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca | Pokapū Tohutohu Awhikiri (external link) Ngā mōhiotanga rūkahu me ngā tāware Last updated: 4 February 2022 at 11:31 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ka hangaia e Pfizer-BioNTech. E mōhiotia ana hoki e tōna ingoa whaitohu, a Comirnaty. He kano ārai mate pūtake mRNA (waikawa tuipūmua karere). kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto. Kāore e pāngia tō DNA, ō ira rānei. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa pakeke ake i te 5 tau. He momo kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mā ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau te pakeke, otirā he iti iho te pota, he iti iho hoki te rahinga. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā kano ārai mate mā te hunga 5-11 tau te pakeke Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . Ka werohia koe e tētahi kaituku kano ārai mate tautōhito ki te kano ārai mate i te wāhanga o runga o tō ringa. Ka taea te werohanga tuarua i muri i te toru wiki i te iti rawa o tō werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te Pfizer mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, ka taea e koe te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i ō pota matua. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka tukuna e te kano ārai mate Pfizer he huinga tohutohu hei whakaako i tō tinana me pēhea te whawhai i te huaketo KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka ako tō tinana ki te āhua o te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me te whakamahi i ngā paturopi ki te whawhai atu. Ko tā te paturopi mahi he ārai atu i te huaketo kia kore e pokea ō pūtau, ā, ka āwhina ki te patu i a ia. Ina pā koe ki te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 hei te wā e tū mai nei, kei tō tinana ngā utauta tika ki te ārai i a ia anō, kia iti iho tō tūpono pāngia e te mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate Kowheori-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. E mōhio ana mātou ki te pai o te mahi a te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā te mea i tutuki ngā hia marama o ngā whakamātautau ā-haumanu ki te 40,000 tāngata i mua i tana whakamanatanga. I whakatauritehia e ngā whakamātautau haumanu ngā hua o tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano ārai mate ki tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano whakataruna (mehanga tote). I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i kitea he 95% te parenga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua tukua e Medsafe te whakaaetanga tārewa ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer (me ngā here) kia whakamahia i Aotearoa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua whakaaetia ōkawatia, engari me tuku tonu a Pfizer i ngā raraunga haere tonu me te pūrongo hoki hei whakaatu i tana whakatutuki i ngā paerewa o te ao. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi aroturuki a Medsafe i te haumarutanga me te whaihuatanga o te kano ārai mate i te wā e whakamahia ana. Ka arotakehia ngā raraunga mai i ngā whakamātautau haumanu haere tonu puta noa i te ao, me ngā pūrongo mai i ngā mātanga hauora me te hunga kua whiwhi kano ārai mate. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te pota tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. Ko te myocarditis te mumuratanga o te taha uaua manawa, ā, e mōhiotia ana hei pānga kino mokorea o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro me te tono i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, me te kite i ngā whakamātautau KOWHEORI kua whakahaeretia e koe. Ko te wāhitau paetukutuku ko mycovidrecord.health.nz Mā tēnei pae tukutuku ka taea e koe: Kua kore te Kāwanatanga e hiahia kia whiwhi koe i te My Vaccine Pass e uru ai koe ki ngā pakihi, ngā takahanga, ngā ratonga rānei. Ka taea tonu e te pakihi te kōwhiri kia whiwhi My Vaccine Pass te tangata i mua o te kuhunga mēnā he take hauora, haumaru hoki o te mau i tētahi. Engari ko ngā pakihi me ngā rōpū ka kōwhiri kia whiwhi koe i tētahi My Vaccine Pass hei tikanga whakauru, e kore e taea te aukati i te hunga kei raro i te 12 tau te kuhu atu ina kore he My Vaccine Pass. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Last updated: 4 May 2022 at 9:48 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapu me pēhea te whiwhi taunakitanga o ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa i te wā e whakawhiti ana ki tāwāhi Rapua he kōrero mō te whakamahi i te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record, te wāhi e taea ai e koe te whakauru atu ki ngā mōhiohio mō tō pūkete KOWHEORI-19. Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Rapu me pēhea te whakaatu i tō taunakitanga tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ina haere koe ki tāwāhi. He taupānga koreutu te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ka taea e ngā umanga, ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga te whakamahi hei matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai. Last updated: 18 February 2022 at 10:10 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, kua whiwhi i tētahi pota kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Ka whai ēnei tiwhikete i ngā paerewa Tiwhikete Matihiko KOWHEORI a te EU. He rerekē pea ngā herenga o ētahi atu whenua. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi tēnā tirohia ngā herenga o te whenua e haere atu nā koe. Me whai hoki koe i ngā tukanga manene noa mō te whenua e haere nā koe. Ka hiahiatia pea ētahi atu whāinga, pēnei i te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu, e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. He waehere QR kei tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere, ka matawaitia i te wā e hāereere ana koe. Kei roto ngā taipitopito o ngā werohanga ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whiwhi koe i Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te puri i tēnei tiwhikete ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mana tēnei tiwhikete mō te 12 marama. Me ōrite ngā taipitopito o tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere ki ō tō puka uruwhenua. Ka taea te tirotiro i ō taipitopito whaiaro i te wā e tono ana koe i te tiwhikete. He tere, māmā hoki te tono i tō tiwhikete. Ka īmēratia atu tō tiwhikete ki a koe i te 24 hāora. Ko te huarahi tere rawa e whiwhi ai koe i tō tiwhikete, mā te My Covid Record. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te rōpū o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Ka taea anake e koe te whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere mēnā i werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi, me tono koe i tētahi tiwhikete mai i taua whenua, e taea ai e koe te puta ki waho o Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki ō pota e rua i tāwāhi, e kore rawa koe e whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere i Aotearoa. Last updated: 20 January 2022 at 12:57 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko te tauwāhi ko mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) , ā, ka mahi i runga i ngā rorohiko katoa, waea atamai rānei. He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro me te tono i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, me te kite i ngā whakamātautau KOWHEORI kua whakahaeretia e koe. Mā tēnei pae tukutuku ka taea e koe: Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau te whakauru atu ki My Covid Record: Kaua e toha i tō takiuru me tō kupuhipa My Covid Record ki tētahi atu. Ina kite koe i ētahi hapa i tō pūkete, ka taea e koe te whakakī i te puka tuihono e kīia nei ko Change of details form , te īmēra rānei ki help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Mēnā e raruraru ana tō tono i tētahi tiwhikete, pūkete rānei mō tētahi atu ka taea e koe te waea ki: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mēnā e raruraru ana tō tukuatu i tētahi whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere mō tētahi atu, ka taea e koe te waea ki: 0800 555 728 (8am ki te 8pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Last updated: 4 May 2022 at 9:42 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) Last updated: 20 April 2022 at 12:43 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ka taea te whakamahi i te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ki te hihira i te ūnga kano ārai mate o te tangata. Me whai ipurangi ki te tikiake i te taupānga i te tuatahi, me te matawai tuatahi hoki. Hei muri i tērā, ka taea e te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa te matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai me te kore hononga ki te ipurangi, engari me hono ki te ipurangi i ngā wā auau ki te whakarite e taea ai e ia te manatoko i ngā My Vaccine Passes e whaimana ana. Kāore e taea te whakamahi i te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa hei matawai i ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāreere. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero mō te My Vaccine Pass Tīkina ake te taupānga mā te App Store (external link) Tīkina ake te taupānga mā Google Play (external link) Ina tikiake koe i te taupānga, me te whakaae ki ngā ture whakamahi, me: E hiahiatia ana e te taupānga NZ Pass Verifier ngā whakaaetanga kāmera kia taea ai te matawai i ngā waehere QR My Vaccine Pass. Ka tono te taupānga i tēnei whakaaetanga ina tīmata koe ki te matawai. Hei matawai i tētahi kōkota, pāwhiri i te pātene ‘Scan’. Mā tēnei e whakaatu te mata matawai. Tohua tō waea ki te waehere QR i te kōkota kia uru ki te rohe heipū o tō mata. Ko te kōkota whaimana ka whakaatu i te ingoa me te rā whānau o te tangata (e whakaatu ana i runga i te Kōkota Kano Ārai) tae atu ki te tohu whakaae kākāriki me te kupu ‘valid’. Mēnā kāore te Kōkota Kano Ārai o Aotearoa e whaimana, mā te taupānga e kī ake he aha ai. Ākene pea nā te mea: Hei matawai i tētahi atu kōkota, patohia te pātene ‘Scan again’, me miri whakararo rānei i te mata otinga ki te whakakore. Kāore te matawai i te Kōkota e whāki atu mēnā kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua, kāore rānei - engari ka whāki mēnā kua tutuki ngā herenga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ma tēnei e pupuri te tūmataitinga o te hunga tē āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate nā ngā take hauora. Tērā pea kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate, he tohu whakawātea ā-hauora rānei tāna (he iti noa te hunga o Aotearoa ka whiwhi i tēnei). Ki te hiahia āwhina koe ki te taupānga, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki te rōpū motuhake i Te Manatū Hauora. Īmēra VerifierTechHelp@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea ki 0800 800 606 Last updated: 20 January 2022 at 12:57 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero mō te tuku kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti hei ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19 Te Kaupapa Tuku Kano Ārai Mate KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka puta pea i te kano ārai mate Pfizer he pānga kino ki ētahi tamariki. Koinei tonu te urupare a te tinana, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate. Last updated: 18 February 2022 at 10:10 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. He mea tikanga hira te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia noho haumaru ngā tamariki, he rite ki te pani ārai hihira, te whakamau tātua waka rānei. He tiaki i ō tamariki mai i ngā mate nui me te ārai i te hōrapa o te mate ki roto i tō whānau me te hapori. E rua ngā potanga kano ārai mate Pfizer me whiwhi te tamaiti hei tino ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka tukuna ngā potanga e rua kia 8 wiki i waenganui. Ka taea te whakapoto te wā ki te 21 rā i te iti rawa mēnā e hiahiatia ana, hei tauira, mēnā kei te tīmata maimoatanga rongoā pēhi ārai mate nui tō tamaiti. Kua whakamātautauria haumanutia te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau me ngā tamariki nō tēnei rōpū taipakeke, ā, me kī, ko ngā pānga kino i pūrongohia he māmā, kāore i roa, ā, he rite ki ngā pānga kino nō ētahi atu kano ārai mate noa Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka pā mai pea ētahi pānga kino māmā ki tō tamaiti i te 1—2 rā i muri i te whiwhi i tana kano ārai mate Pfizer. He mea noa tēnei, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te ako tōna tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. Kāore e tino roa te pānga mai o te nuinga o ngā pānga kino, ā, kāore he pānga o te nuinga ki ō mahi o ia rā. Mēnā kāore e pā mai he pānga kino ki tō tamaiti kei te pai tērā, kei te mahi tonu te kano ārai mate. Ka taea ngā pānga pāwera kino te pā mai engari he tino rerekē ēnei. Ka whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ēnei. Me kōrero atu ki tō kaiwero mēnā ka māuiui tō tamaiti, kei te māharahara rānei koe, i te mea he tere te pā mai o ngā pānga pāwera kino i muri i te kano ārai mate. Koinei te take me tirotiro tō tamaiti mō te 15 meneti i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate. He kino ake pea ētahi pānga kino, engari he mokorea, pēnei i te mate pāwera tino kino, te kakā o te manawa rānei (Myocarditis me te pericarditis). He tino rerekē te pā mai o te myocarditis me te pericarditis engari he pānga kino ēnei nō te kano ārai mate Pfizer. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, kāore i kitea ēnei i roto i ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau, engari he mea nui kia mōhio ki ngā tohumate mō ngā taipakeke katoa ka whiwhi kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā mai ētahi o ēnei tohumate hou ki tō tamaiti, me rapu āwhina hauora koe, otirā mēnā kāore e kore atu ēnei tohumate: He mea nui kia pūrongohia e koe ngā pānga ki ō tamariki whai muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā mātau whaiwhai i te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate. Ka taea e koe te pūrongo ngā pānga kino ki tō tamaiti i report.vaccine.covid19.govt.nz (external link) , me kōrero rānei ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te kōrero mō te pūrongo i ngā pānga kino. Ehara i te mea me mātua mōhio koe i ahu mai te pānga i te kano ārai mate hei tuku pūrongo. Ka whiwhi anō pea koe i tētahi karere patowaea i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai KOWHEORI-19 a tō tamaiti e tono ana kia whakaotihia e koe he rangahau poto mō ngā pānga. Mā te whakauru mai ka āwhina koe i a mātau kia whiwhi mōhio mō te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Kei a koe te tikanga mēnā ka whakauru mai ki te rangahau, ā, ka āhei koe ki te wehe atu ahakoa te wā. He koreutu te whakautu i te patowaea. Ka kitea he mōhiohio atu anō i Medsafe.govt.nz/COVID-safety-reporting/ (external link) Mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio mō ngā tohumate o tō tamaiti, waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara tonu ōu mō te haumaru o tō tamaiti, me waea atu ki 111 , ā, me mātua whakamōhio atu i whiwhi tō tamaiti i tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātau aromatawai i tōna tūāhua. Ka āwhina ngā kano ārai mate ki te tiaki i ngā tāngata nō ngā taipakeke katoa mai i ētahi o ngā mate maunoa maha, pērā i te mate karawaka, me te whurū. Me tiro mēnā kua whiwhi tō whānau i ngā kano ārai mate katoa mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Kāore he māharahara mō te wā ka whiwhi i ētahi atu kano ārai mate ehara i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te mate karawaka, mate repe pupuhi, rūpera; kāore koe e mate ki te hiki i ēnei kano ārai mate mō tētahi atu wā. Haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu mōhiohio. I muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate Pfizer a tō tamaiti | After your child’s Pfizer vaccination [PDF, 218 KB] Last updated: 10 February 2022 at 1:24 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ka āhei ngā mātua me ngā kaitiaki tamariki ki te tiaki i ā rātau tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau mai i te KOWHEORI-19, mā te tuku i tētahi hanganga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer (mātai mate tamariki). Ko te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mō ngā tamariki he tauira kano ārai mate Pfizer tēnei mō ngā tamariki, ā, he iti ake te potanga me te rahinga. E rua ngā potanga me whiwhi ngā tamariki kia tino whakamarutia. E tūtohua ana kia 8 wiki i te iti rawa i waenganui. Ka taea te whakapoto te wā ki te 21 rā i te iti rawa mēnā e hiahiatia ana, hei tauira, mēnā kei te tīmata maimoatanga tō tamaiti me ngā rongoā pēhi ārai mate. E tūtohu ana Te Manatū Hauora kia whiwhi kano ārai mate tō tamaiti hei tiaki i a ia me tō whānau, hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. He tikanga hira te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia noho haumaru ngā tamariki, he rite ki te pani ārai hihira, te whakamau tātua waka rānei. He tiaki i ō tamariki mai i ngā mate nui me te ārai i te hōrapa o te mate ki roto i tō whānau me te hapori. I Aotearoa, ka whiwhi ngā tamariki i ngā kano ārai mate koreutu mō ngā mate 12, tae atu ki te mare heihei (pertussis), mate karawaka me te whakamemeke. Mā te tuku kano ārai mate ki ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau ka āwhina ki te tiaki i ērā o te whānau he nui ake te mōrea ki te KOWHEORI-19 nā ō rātau mate. He matawhawhati pea te mate KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ahakoa he māmā ake te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ngā tamariki, he rite ngā tohumate ki te whurū, ka pāngia kinotia ētahi tamariki e te mate, ā, ka uru pea ki te hōhipera. Ka pāngia hoki ngā tamariki ki ētahi mate tino rerekē pērā i te Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), ā, tērā pea ka uru ki te wāhanga whāomoomo. Ka pāngia anō ngā tamariki ki ngā pānga kino wā roa (e kīia ana ko te KOWHEORI mauroa), mai i ngā kēhi KOWHEORI-19 māmā hoki. Pērā anō i ngā pakeke, ki te pāngia tō tamaiti e te mate KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e ia te tuku mate ki ētahi atu. Kua whakamātautauria haumanutia te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau me ngā tamariki nō tēnei rōpū taipakeke. Me kī, ko ngā pānga kino i pūrongohia he māmā, kāore i roa, ā, he rite ki ngā pānga kino nō ētahi atu kano ārai mate noa. E tūtohua ana te kano ārai mate mō ngā tamariki he mate pāwera kai ō rātau. Engari kāore he kai, keratini, taherapa rānei i roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ko te pūtake anake kia kaua te tangata e whiwhi i tēnei kano ārai mate nā te pāwera mēnā i pā mai he pāwera kino ki a ia i mua (anaphylaxis) mai i tētahi potanga kano ārai mate Pfizer, he kai rānei nō roto o te kano ārai mate. I whakahaerehia anō taua tukanga whakaae taikaha mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer tamariki (mātai mate tamariki) pērā i ētahi atu kano ārai mate tamariki noa. Kāore i pokaina he whakamātautau haumanu, he karo rānei i roto i ngā whakamātautau i te haumarutanga. Mēnā kei te āhua āmaimai ia, ka āhei ia ki te heri atu i tētahi mea hei whakaware i a ia, pērā i tētahi taonga tākaro ngohengohe, he waea rānei. Mēnā he pānga ki ō tamariki i ētahi atu kano ārai mate i mua, me whakamōhio atu ki tō kaiwero, me kōrero rānei ki tō rata i mua i te wāhui, me kōrero rānei ki tētahi mātanga matatau nō te COVID Vaccination Healthline – 0800 28 29 26 . Me whai tētahi matua, kaitiaki rānei i tō tamaiti ki tana wāhui hei pakeke tōtika me te tuku whakaae mōna kia whiwhi kano ārai mate ia. I te wāhui, kei te pakeke me te tamaiti te kaha ki te tuku i ngā pātai katoa e hiahia ana rāua. Pērā me ngā kano ārai mate katoa, kāore e kore ka mamae tō ringa o tō tamaiti, ā, ka whero, ka mamae, ka pupuhi rānei te wāhi i weroa. Ko ētahi atu pānga ka taea, ko te tikanga i roto i te kotahi, rua rā rānei, ko te: Pā noa mai ēnei, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate. Me whakahau kia whakatā, ā, kia nui tonu te inu wai. He tino rerekē ngā pānga kino mai i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer, ā, i te nuinga o te wā ka pā mai i muri tonu i te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei, ka whakanohotia kōrua ko tō tamaiti ki tētahi wāhi mātai kia tirotirohia ai ia e ngā kaimahi haumanu hei whakarite ka whiwhi maimoatanga hauora ia ki te tūpono pā mai tēnei. Ngā tohu pānga kino pea ko te: Mēnā ka kite koe kua pāngia tō tamaiti e tētahi o ēnei tohumate, me wawe te whakamōhio atu ki ngā kaimahi haumanu. Mēnā kāore koe i tētahi wāhi tuku kano ārai mate me waea atu ki 111 . He tino rerekē te pā mai o te myocarditis me te pericarditis engari he pānga kino ēnei nō te kano ārai mate Pfizer. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, kāore i kitea ēnei i roto i ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau, engari he mea nui kia mōhio ki ngā tohumate mō ngā taipakeke katoa ka whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ki te pā mai tētahi o ēnei tohumate ki tō tamaiti i ngā rā, ngā wiki rānei i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate, me wawe tonu te whiwhi āwhina hauora. Ngā tohumate o te myocarditis me te pericarditis: Kāore he utu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mō te tangata. Mai i te 17 o Hānuere, ka āhei ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki tamariki rānei te haere ki tētahi wāhi tuku kano ārai mate kuhu noa me ā rātau tamariki, te whakamahi rānei i te BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) hei whiwhi kano ārai mate me tō rātau kaiwhakarato hauora ake, whare rata rānei. Me mātua whakarite ka tīpakohia e koe te awhe taipakeke tika. Mēnā kei te hiahia koe ki te tāpui mō neke atu i te kotahi tamaiti, kāore rānei e taea e koe te tāpui tuihono, ka taea te waea atu ki COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 (8am–8pm, 7 rā i te wiki), ā, ka whakaritea e mātau te tāpuitanga mōu me te whakautu i ō pātai. E wātea ana ngā kaiwhakamāori. E wātea ana te Rōpū Tautoko Hauātanga i te Mane ki te Paraire, mai i te 8am ki te 8pm. Ka tautokona e rātau tō whānau me te tāpui i tētahi wāhui mōu. Ka taea anō e rātau te whakautu ō pātai mō ngā hiahia o tō tamaiti tae atu ki te wātea mai ki a rātau, ngā kōwhiringa ikiiki koreutu, ngā pānga rānei o te kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti. Mō ētahi mōhiohio anō me ngā hono hei rangahau, haere ki: Me kōrero ki tētahi kaitohutohu matatau kei te COVID Vaccination Healthline – 0800 28 29 26 8am–8pm, 7 ra i te wiki. Te tiaki i ō tamariki mai i te KOWHEORI-19 | Protecting your tamariki from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Last updated: 10 February 2022 at 1:24 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. If you are concerned someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available Last updated 13 June 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 263,480 Paediatric first doses administered (5 to 11) 127,855 Paediatric second doses administered (5 to 11) 2,668,212 Booster doses administered (16+) Check our vaccinations map to find out how many people in your DHB or small area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand This data is updated every weekday, except public holidays. For weekend case numbers visit the Ministry of Health website: Latest news | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated 13 June 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 and testing in New Zealand. This includes: We update this data every weekday. For weekend case numbers, visit the Ministry of Health website: Latest news | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 data and statistics | health.govt.nz (external link) 352 Cases in hospital 4,413 New community cases 68 Cases recently arrived from overseas 41,433 Active community cases Last updated 13 June 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and COVID-19 related deaths. COVID-19 related deaths include: COVID-19 current cases data | health.govt.nz (external link) 5 COVID-19 related deaths reported in the last 24 hours 1,267 People who have died within 28 days of testing positive for COVID-19 1,325 Total number of publicly reported COVID-19 related deaths Last updated 13 June 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) 8,456 RATs reported in last 24 hours 2,157 PCR tests in last 24 hours Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | stats.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports | health.govt.nz (external link) If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you are a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 13 June 2022 at 2:07 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated. This map shows the vaccination rates for areas around New Zealand. Type your address to see the proportion of people who have received their first, second or booster dose in your area, compared with the national average. Age group Dose Ethnicity Map areas Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Map key  Map key Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 14 March 2022 at 2:52 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1-10 of 985 updates 13 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Jun 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1.30pm. 08 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Health Minister Andrew Little was in Auckland this afternoon to see the first shipment of molnupiravir, the second oral anti-viral COVID-19 medicine to arrive in the country. Anti-virals stop people with mild COVID-19 symptoms from becoming very sick and needing to go to hospital, and because they are pills, they are easy for people to take at home. New Zealand was one of the first countries to secure access to supplies of molnupiravir. It was approved this month by medicines regulator Medsafe, and the first shipment has just arrived. Vaccination is still our first and best line of defence, but it is important to have a range of treatments available for people who contract COVID-19 and are at risk of becoming seriously ill. We already have 4 medicines — Baricitinib, Ronapreve, Remdesivir and Tocilizumab —being used in hospitals, and this month another anti-viral, Paxlovid, started being used to treat people at home. Adding molnupiravir into the mix means doctors have got a range of medicines to combat the worst symptoms of COVID-19 and protect people who are immunocompromised or have complex health conditions. It also helps prevent the health system from being overwhelmed. Another medicine, Evusheld, a prophylactic treatment which can prevent people who can’t have vaccines from getting COVID-19, is awaiting Medsafe approval. All COVID-19 medicines are funded through the Government’s COVID-19 fund. Last updated: 20 April 2022 at 1:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Ministry of Health is continuing to monitor international evidence on reinfection rates. Current evidence shows the chance of having COVID-19 again within 90 days of a first infection, especially if it is the same variant, is low but it can occasionally happen. Ensuring you minimise your chances of catching COVID-19 again is especially important for: People who become unwell with respiratory symptoms within 90 days following a COVID-19 infection but are low risk, should stay at home and recover until 24 hours after most symptoms clear up. We do nott advise routinely retesting at home within this period but if someone becomes increasingly unwell they should seek advice from their doctor or Healthline. Those more at-risk people who become unwell again within 90 days of their initial illness should seek further advice from a health practitioner. If you become unwell more than 90 days after a COVID-19 infection you should follow the same advice as for a first infection. It is important to take any respiratory illness seriously and take time to recover. We are heading into the colder months — traditionally a time when there is also more sickness in general in the population. New Zealanders are well versed in following public health guidance — now is not the time to give up on those. Please continue to: Vaccination remains a key defence against winter ills and chills — both the COVID-19 vaccine and the influenza vaccine. For more information on reinfection, visit: Catching COVID-19 again | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 13 May 2022 at 2:15 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The change means residence class visa holders not vaccinated against COVID-19 will be able to enter New Zealand from 6 May 2022. The change allows New Zealand permanent residents, and Australian citizens ordinarily resident in New Zealand, to travel in and out of the country. Under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order, and because of the public health risk at the time, unvaccinated residence visa holders have not been able to enter New Zealand since November 2021. There is now a variation to the Order, on the basis of the high numbers of people in New Zealand who are vaccinated, combined with how common the Omicron variant has become. This means the risk posed to our healthcare system from overseas returnees is now much lower. The Government acknowledges the difficulties some residents have faced in remaining overseas during this period and are pleased to be able to make this change. Caution has served us well during the past two years. As we continue to move through the Omicron outbreak and peak, we will continue to remove restrictions when advised it is safe to do so. In the first instance, the broadened criteria for return is being enabled by the Director-General of Health signing a class exemption which allows unvaccinated travellers holding either a Permanent Resident visa or a Resident visa, and Australian citizens who live in New Zealand, to enter the country. The class exemption will not prevent people in other groups from continuing to apply for exemptions based on their individual circumstances. From 11:59pm NZ time 5 May 2022, when the class exemption goes into effect, a manual process will be used to approve Traveller Declarations made by unvaccinated people in these groups. Travellers whose flights to New Zealand depart after 11:59pm NZ time 5 May 2022, need to call the New Zealand Traveller Declaration Contact Centre for details on how to make their Traveller Declaration. Then from 13 May 2022, all unvaccinated New Zealand residence class visa holders will be able to do their Traveller Declaration online. Further amendments to the air and maritime border settings are being considered.   Last updated: 20 April 2022 at 1:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Crew scheduled to disembark their ship will need to undergo a COVID-19 rapid antigen test (RAT) before disembarking. This test will be referred to as Day 0/1 test. If the crew member is still in the community or is planning to disembark the ship again more than 120 hours after their first test, they will be required to complete a second test (a Day 5/6 test). In some instances, maritime crew may still be required to isolate on board a ship — f or example, if they test positive for COVID-19, or if they are considered a Household Contact of a positive case. The change has been introduced to help bring the rules for the maritime border into closer alignment with the air border rules. This amendment does not open the maritime border to any new groups of people, or classes of vessel, such as cruise ships.   Last updated: 20 April 2022 at 1:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. This means that most of the deaths that have now been publicly announced have been assessed as either having COVID-19 as the underlying cause, contributing to the death, or unrelated to the death. As of this morning: Our thoughts are with everyone who has lost a loved one from COVID-19. While there has been a significant increase in the number of deaths from COVID-19 since the start of the Omicron outbreak, New Zealand has still experienced significantly lower cumulative COVID-19 mortality than most countries. These deaths are a sobering reminder that, while most people with COVID-19 will experience a mild to moderate illness, for some people it can lead to severe illness and even death. There are three actions everyone can do to help protect themselves and others from COVID-19 and potentially save lives. Be up to date with vaccinations, including a booster if you have not yet had one. Get your COVID-19 vaccination Masks are still required in many indoor settings. A good rule of thumb is to wear a mask in indoor public settings as we know that mask use halves the risk of spread of COVID-19. When you need to wear a face mask Stay home and avoid others if you are unwell, isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. The Ministry of Health will continue to update information about deaths of people with COVID-19, including the cause of death, on their website. COVID-19 case demographics | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 18 May 2022 at 1:14 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the livestream below. Today we are reporting 7,970 community cases, 381 hospitalisations and 28 deaths. Today’s 7-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,420 – last Tuesday it was 7,746. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 28 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include one person who died in February, 5 in March, 11 in April, and 7 who died over the previous 7 days. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 902 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 15. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 2 people were from Northland, 5 from Auckland, 3 from Waikato, 3 from Bay of Plenty, 2 from Whanganui, 3 from the Wellington region, 4 from the Canterbury region and 6 from Southern. One was in their 40s; 1 was in their 50s; 2 were in their 60s; 8 were in their 70s; 11 were in their 80s; 5 were in their 90s. Eighteen were men and 10 were women. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Note: 2 of the deaths reported previously have been removed from our totals, as it has now been determined that they are not a COVID-19 case. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 11 May 2022 at 1:37 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Watch the COVID-19 media conference held by government officials and ministers at 4pm. Speakers: Transcript of the 4pm media conference The COVID-19 media conference was held at 10:30am. Speakers: Transcript of the 10:30am media conference Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference with ministers was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference.  Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the livestream below. Today we are reporting 7,441 community cases, 398 hospitalisations and 29 deaths. Today’s seven-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,548 — last Friday it was 7,555. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 29 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include 14 people who have died in the previous 2 days, and an additional 15 people who died between 24 March and 7 May. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 940 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 6 were from Auckland; 1 from Waikato, 1 from Taranaki, 1 from Tairawhiti, 2 from Hawkes Bay, 2 from Bay of Plenty, 1 from Whanganui, 4 from the Greater Wellington region, 1 from Nelson Marlborough, 6 from Canterbury, and 4 from Southern. 2 people were in their 20s, 3 in their 30s, 3 in their 50s, 4 in their 60s, 6 in their 70s, 3 in their 80s and 8 over the age of 90. Of these people, 14 were women and 15 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 13 May 2022 at 1:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the Prime Minister's 5:30pm media conference [PDF, 275 KB] (external link) The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 14 August 1pm media conference [PDF, 194 KB] (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers:  Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 1.30pm. Speakers:  Last updated: 8 June 2022 at 1:33 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The new Statistics NZ figures provide a measure of the overall rate of deaths in New Zealand during the pandemic compared to pre-pandemic years. It is not a measure of people known to have died from COVID-19 and reflects all causes of deaths during this time. Comparing the actual number of deaths in New Zealand since the start of the pandemic with the expected number of deaths during that period, based on earlier years’ figures, shows fewer deaths than expected. We recognise the pain of losing a family member or friend, and do not wish to diminish that, but it is welcome that this data, which is the best measure we have to date, shows there was not a higher-than-normal death rate in New Zealand over the first two years of the pandemic. This reflected the benefits of our COVID-19 response in reducing exposure to the virus and protecting our more vulnerable New Zealanders and a decision to implement a nationwide response coordinated from the centre. Vaccination has played a key role, along with border and isolation measures, in keeping people safe from the more deadly variants of COVID-19 by keeping them out of the community or significantly limiting their spread. It also reflects our ability to continue to provide non COVID-19-related health services and procedures to the public, which many other countries had to severely curtail. For instance, if New Zealand had a similar rate of COVID-19 mortality as the United States, we would be reporting approximately 15,000 deaths from COVID-19 today. Despite doing better than most countries, these deaths are a reminder that, while most people with COVID-19 will experience a mild to moderate illness, for some people it can lead to severe illness and even death. Being up to date with vaccinations, wearing a mask indoors and staying home if unwell can help protect themselves and others from COVID-19 and potentially save lives. Excess mortality contributes to our overall picture of the toll of the pandemic, including any changes in mortality that are directly or indirectly due to the pandemic. The Statistics New Zealand measures, in conjunction with previous research, indicate that: An important distinction to make is that people can die with COVID-19 as the direct cause, or COVID-19 may be a contributing factor alongside other health conditions, or the cause of death may be unrelated to COVID-19, even if the person has returned a positive test recently. The Ministry of Health has released updated information on this topic this morning. Covid-19 deaths reporting update Last updated: 18 May 2022 at 1:22 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. "Because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public, with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. I require the following people to do 2 things. This direction applies to the following people: If you need advice accessing financial assistance while you have been directed to isolate at home you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009." Given at Wellington at 1pm Wednesday 12 August 2020 Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director-General of Health Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A major package of reforms announced today include an early opening of New Zealand’s border and a simplification of immigration settings, to address the immediate skill shortages in New Zealand and speed up the economic recovery from COVID-19. New Zealand's international border will reopen to all tourists and visa holders 2 months earlier than planned on 31 July. This will be welcome news for families, businesses and our migrant communities. It also provides certainty and good preparation time for airlines and cruise ship companies planning a return to New Zealand in the peak spring and summer seasons. A major constraint on business is access to skilled labour. This plan will increase the available pool of labour, while also speeding up tourism recovery. This follows our previous reconnecting work which has seen approvals granted for over 29,000 critical workers, 5,000 students, working holidaymakers, Australian tourists, and visa-waiver visitors already able to enter the country. By helping to relieve urgent skills shortages, opening up tourism and putting our immigration settings on a more secure footing, we are building on the plan to secure New Zealand’s economic future. Through the Accredited Employer Work Visa, employers: The Government has worked closely with businesses on these reforms. The Government recognises that shift for some sectors is more challenging than others by establishing new sector agreements to assist with the transition. They will provide access for specified sectors to lower-paid migrant workers, and all those employers can continue to hire working holidaymakers at any wage. The tourism and hospitality industries in particular have been hit hard by the pandemic. The Government has agreed to temporarily exempt tourism and hospitality businesses from paying the median wage to recruit migrants on an Accredited Employer Work Visa into most roles. Instead, a lower wage threshold of $25 per hour will be required until April 2023. This follows the recent $27 per hour border exception that was granted around certain snow season roles to help the sector prepare for winter tourists. New sector agreements for the care; construction and infrastructure; meat processing; seafood; and seasonal snow and adventure tourism sectors will provide for a short-term or ongoing need for access to lower-paid migrants. Hiring migrants on the Accredited Employer Work visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) The full reopening is a significant milestone for the international education sector, which can now start to rebuild sustainably, with a big focus on value and by attracting students. More than 5,000 international students have already been confirmed for entry as part of previous border exemptions, which means they can be here by mid-July. From the end of July, all international students who meet normal entry criteria can enrol for study here. Changes announced today seek to attract students to New Zealand to learn, while also shutting the backdoor route to residency. These changes include: New Zealand has a strong international education brand and is universally regarded as a place that students want to come to study. It enriches us as well as connecting us to the world, and strengthens our reputation offshore. Changes for the international education sector | immigration.govt.nz (external link) The Government has also announced new rebalanced immigration settings which will help businesses access the key skills they need while ensuring wages and working conditions are improved for everyone. Our plan is to grow skills at home. Over the past 2 years, over 190,000 New Zealanders have benefitted from Government investment in trades training, including apprenticeships. An extension to the Apprenticeship Boost scheme has already been announced, which will see a further 38,000 New Zealanders supported into a trade. The cornerstone of the immigration rebalance is the new Green List which will incentivise and attract high skilled migrants to New Zealand, by providing a new streamlined pathway to residency for those globally hard to fill roles. The list features 85 hard to fill roles including construction engineering, trades, health workers and tech. Our rebalanced immigration system will be simpler, reducing categories, bringing more online accessibility and streamlining application processes for businesses. Also announced today, is around 20,000 visa holders with visas expiring before 2023 are being granted either a 6-month extension or a new 2-year visa with open work conditions, so they and their employers will not be affected by this changes and we can keep the skills we need within the country. The decision to bring the final border opening date forward allows us to fully reconnect to the world of international tourists and business travellers in time for our traditional peak visitor season. Our wider tourism sector is on the way to recovery. We will be fully open to the world in mid-winter, traditionally our quietest period for visitors. Bringing forward the date allows prospective travellers to apply for visitor visas well ahead of time before taking the next step to book a flight or a cruise for future travel. Approximately 90% of cruise visits are during the warmer months of October to April, and summer is our bumper tourism season overall. Today’s announcement means it is full steam ahead for the industry who can plan with certainty for the rest of the year and beyond. The full details of the immigration rebalance, including changes to settings, can be found on the Immigration New Zealand website: New Zealand border fully reopening by July 2022 (external link) Last updated: 12 May 2022 at 10:05 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. As New Zealand reconnects with the world, we are exploring innovative COVID-19 testing technology to help keep people safe and minimise disruption as we welcome new visitors. We are constantly monitoring the latest scientific advancements to maintain our successful COVID-19 response. The Government is partnering with Air New Zealand to trial the ‘Lucira Check-It’ test kits. Using LAMP technology, the test has the potential to combine the speed of rapid antigen tests (RATs) with the accuracy of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests. LAMP tests are both cheaper than PCRs and more convenient — they are self-administered and provide results to users within 30 minutes. The accuracy of the LAMP test has already been established through clinical trials. The purpose of this trial is to prove that the test can be easily self-administered, and that the Air New Zealand crew taking part can quickly identify the results. Air New Zealand’s role in this trial demonstrates the sector’s and Government’s continued determination to keep business moving, tourists arriving, and goods flowing. The start of this trial comes as we prepare to welcome our first visitors from visa-wavier countries which is a crucial part of our economic recovery. There are many wider benefits that LAMP tests could provide to New Zealanders. These include a self-test option with quick results for travellers, border workers, healthcare workers and critical employees prior to travel or commencing work. LAMP tests could also be used for high-risk settings such as aged residential care facilities and hospitals. New Zealand is open for business, and we now want to make sure international visitors have the confidence to travel safely and easily. Last updated: 20 April 2022 at 1:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: Health responses include: “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. We know that face masks are a crucial part of our defence against the spread of COVID-19 and using them will continue to help protect loved ones and save lives. The new process is being introduced to make sure people who have genuine reasons for not being able to wear a mask have more certainty in being able to demonstrate that. For the business community, the new cards will mean evidence that a person with the new card is exempt from the requirement to wear a mask, removing uncertainty that businesses have been dealing with. We have recognised that for some people an impairment, health conditions, a physical disability or mental health reasons can mean wearing a mask isn’t possible. These reasons are not always obvious or easy to explain and that has left some New Zealanders who are genuinely unable to wear a mask not being able to access the businesses and services they normally would. It has also meant uncomfortable situations, with people needing to explain private health information to strangers, when they are trying to do basic tasks like shopping. We have worked hard to find a solution which avoids this. The new process will be administered by the Ministry of Health and allows people who cannot wear a mask to get a personalised card to help them access businesses and services where wearing a mask is required. The new card will also help businesses. Sadly, in attempting to verify whether people are genuinely exempt, workers — especially those in retail settings such as supermarkets — have experienced escalating and unsafe behaviour from some customers. This new process gives assurance that when someone presents this card, they are genuinely exempt. COVID-19 Orders will be amended to provide that the new card is conclusive proof that someone is exempt. The new cards will be entirely optional — but they will be legally recognised as conclusive proof of a person’s exempt status, which the old cards are not. We will not be cancelling the old cards or requiring affected people to go through the process of getting a new card if they do not want to, however the old cards will not have the legitimacy of the new cards. From the end of May, people will be able to apply for a card through the Ministry of Health website and it will be issued to them digitally or by post. An 0800 call free number will be available, and it will also cater for those who need interpreter or translation services when requesting their card. Mask wearing remains an important public health measure to reduce the likelihood of COVID-19 transmission and keep us all safe. It is important we all understand that for some people wearing a face mask is difficult. This includes people with physical, intellectual or mental health impairments, and people (such as some victims of violent crime) who have experienced past trauma. Those people should still have the same right as others to access good and services. This policy change promotes this important message, and also creates a new approach to accessing exemptions through the Ministry of Health. What has been developed through extensive consultation is a balanced approach which is accessible for exempt people, gives businesses certainty and also makes it harder for others who might try to undermine the process. Last updated: 20 April 2022 at 1:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. With New Zealand expecting to see Omicron cases rise during the winter, the Orange traffic light setting remains appropriate for managing this stage of the outbreak. While daily cases numbers have flattened nationally, they are again beginning to increase in the Northern region. Hospitalisation rates have also increased slightly over the past month. In addition, the latest COVID-19 modelling indicates that under current conditions, there is a likelihood of a secondary wave of cases appearing. The COVID-19 Protection Framework (CPF) has effectively managed the Omicron outbreak at Orange. By following public health advice to remain at that setting, we can maintain some protections while ensuring businesses can continue to operate Everyone should continue to be cautious and think about the health of others, especially those who are immunocompromised or at higher risk of long-term health impacts from infection. Please also get boosted, if you have not already. Self-isolation, vaccination and wearing a face mask continue to be our main defences against COVID-19. You will need to continue wearing a face mask in many indoor settings. It is encouraging to see case numbers remain steady, but there are other factors at play that tell us to remain cautious and not yet move to Green. These include the arrival of new strains of colds and flus, which will add to the workloads of our already busy hospitals. The next review of the traffic light settings will be in late June. Life at Orange Wear a face mask Last updated: 24 May 2022 at 11:15 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Auckland moved to Alert Level 3 at 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August. Restrictions for Auckland at Alert Level 3 The rest of New Zealand will move to Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The latest surge in New Zealanders downloading the NZ COVID Tracer app has taken it over the 1 million mark of registered users. Keep track of where you've been The NZ COVID Tracer app gives us a strong head start in responding. It is not enough to rely on your memory or personal records. All businesses will need to display a QR code for the NZ COVID Trader app by 11:59am on 19 August. It is easy for businesses to download a QR code for their business using a fast new process. Get your QR code  Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery.  We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.  Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB] Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. People who are at high risk of getting very sick from a COVID-19 infection will soon be eligible to receive a second booster. This follows a recommendation from the Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group that a second booster dose may be beneficial for those most at risk of serious illness from COVID-19 and with a gap of 6 months from their previous booster. The vast majority of these people become eligible from July. A booster is important for our most vulnerable as we move into the winter peak. Several hundred thousand people will be eligible, which includes: Final decisions on the make-up of this group will be made within the next 2 weeks. The Government is working urgently to enable the second booster to be made available in the same way as the primary course and booster — that is, without needing to access a doctor. This will be more equitable and make the roll-out to our at-risk groups more effective. The Medicines Act will be amended to do this, with the new policy in effect from mid-June, in good time for the vast majority of eligible people. If you are eligible but have had COVID-19, you will need to wait at least 3 months after your infection before having an additional dose. Based on current advice, for those who are not at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a 2-dose primary course and a booster dose provides very good and lasting protection, which is why we can be more targeted in the rollout of the second booster. We know a booster helps reduce the chance of more serious infection, and it will be less likely that you need hospitalisation. If you have not had your first booster yet, it is not too late to get it in time for the winter season. The Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group will continue to review new information on COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines and will make further recommendations if necessary. Last updated: 27 May 2022 at 10:27 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Ministry of Health's Post Vaccine Symptom Check survey results show that most tamariki aged 5 to 11 did not experience a reaction after receiving the child Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. The majority of tamariki who experienced a reaction after receiving the vaccine only experienced a minor reaction. National Immunisation Programme Group Manager Post Event, Dr Tim Hanlon, says that based on the survey results from nearly 18,000 parents and caregivers across Aotearoa New Zealand, no new safety concerns have been identified for the child Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine and the reactions are similar to those seen in the clinical trial. Overall, just 21% of caregivers reported that their child experienced a reaction after their vaccination. The most commonly reported reactions were tiredness, a reaction at the injection site, headaches and body pain. These are all known and expected side effects of the vaccine. For tamariki who missed school or other daily activities, the majority were reported to have missed 1 day or less after their vaccination. Less than 1% of tamariki visited a doctor after vaccination. The survey did not ask whether the missed activities or visit to a doctor were due to a vaccination reaction. Responses from parents and caregivers were captured via Post Vaccine Symptom Check, a text message survey, sent by the Ministry of Health to a random selection of the population after their COVID-19 vaccination. Post Vaccine Symptom Check is an 'active' reporting system, and the first of its kind in Aotearoa New Zealand. It complements the existing ‘passive’ reporting, which is managed by Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). We know what to expect after COVID-19 vaccinations based on data from clinical trials. Having our own reporting systems in Aotearoa New Zealand helps us to ensure that the vaccine is working as expected in a local context. Over 260,000 tamariki across the motu have now received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine. Aotearoa New Zealand has a good reporting culture in comparison to other countries, meaning that people are more likely to submit a report after vaccination, even for something minor like a headache or sore arm. Given the large number of vaccinations happening in a short timeframe, we expect to receive a high number of reports about reactions to the vaccine. The important thing we look at is the context of the reports we receive, which helps us to identify if there are any trends that might need to be investigated further. It is important that you report how you feel after your COVID-19 vaccination, even if it seems minor. You don't have to be a healthcare professional to submit a report, and you don't need to be sure that the vaccine caused the reaction you experienced. The reports we've received to date are reassuring that the COVID-19 vaccines are working the way we expect them to, and we will continue to monitor the safety of COVID-19 vaccines throughout the lifetime of their use in Aotearoa New Zealand. Last updated: 20 April 2022 at 1:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. This new process is for employers who have mandated workers who have recently recovered from or tested positive for COVID-19 and are therefore eligible for a temporary medical exemption. Now, the employer recognises and administer their workers’ exemption from vaccination for 100 days on the verification of a positive COVID-19 test. To verify a positive COVID-19 test, an employer can view: The employer must confirm in writing the exemption details to the affected worker. This includes the start and end dates of the exemption. The start date is date of the positive test. The confirmation of the exemption can be made by the owner, Chief Executive or equivalent. They may also delegate this to a senior person within the business unit or service, such as HR Manager. The employer is required to provide Ministry of Health total numbers of exempted workers on a quarterly basis (20 January, 20 April, 20 July, 20 October). This information should be emailed to HealthOrders@health.govt.nz. Only one exemption can be recognised by a business unit or service for an affected worker. If a worker subsequently tests positive for COVID-19 after recovery from the first illness, that worker will need to apply again to the Ministry of Health via a medical or nurse practitioner. Last updated: 17 May 2022 at 2:56 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. People who are severely immunocompromised are at higher risk of severe outcomes from COVID-19 and might not produce a sufficiently strong immune response after 2 doses of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. A third primary dose offers extra protection and may help reduce the likelihood of transmitting the virus to others. The third primary dose for children is optional but has been recommended by the COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group. Because there are specific criteria for children to qualify for a third primary dose, it is recommended that parents or guardians schedule an appointment with their health care professional who has access to the child’s medical records to confirm eligibility. Appointments to discuss eligibility are free. A prescription must also be provided by a GP or nurse practitioner before severely immunocompromised children can be given a third primary dose — with prescriptions able to be taken to any vaccination site. Your child may also be able to receive the third primary dose at the same time as their consultation, but please check with your prescriber to see if they offer the child Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. The third primary dose should be given 8 weeks after the second dose but may be given after 4 weeks depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. Talk to your child’s GP or specialist for advice on timing. It is strongly encouraged that all household contacts of someone who is severely immunocompromised (regardless of their age) are up to date with their recommended COVID-19 vaccines to help provide indirect protection. A third primary dose is also being offered to severely immunocompromised children in this age group overseas, including in Australia, the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Note: Given the small number of children expected to be eligible for a third primary dose, the Ministry of Health is unable to report on vaccination uptake for this group until numbers are sufficiently high enough to not identify individuals. Last updated: 20 April 2022 at 1:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 8,182 community cases, 373 current hospitalisations, and 13 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,893 — last Wednesday, it was 7,308. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 13 people with COVID-19 who have died in the past 5 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,185 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 4 were from the Auckland region, 2 were from Canterbury, and 1 each from Bay of Plenty, Tairāwhiti, Hawke’s Bay, Hutt Valley, Capital and Coast, Nelson Marlborough, and Southern. One person was in their 40s, 2 were in their 70s, 5 were in their 80s, and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 6 were female and 7 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 1:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Note: Due to a technical issue, hospitalisation, death and testing numbers are currently unavailable. Today’s statement will be updated as soon as this information becomes available. Today we are reporting 6,297 community cases. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,075 – last Friday it was 6,850. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 1:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 14 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 876 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 1 person was from Northland, 2 from Auckland, 1 from Waikato, 1 from MidCentral, 1 from Hawke’s Bay, 1 from the Wellington region; 6 from Canterbury and 1 from Southern. Six were in their 70, 3 in their 80s, and 5 were aged over 90. Nine were women and 5 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Today we have reached a total of 1,001,898 confirmed cases of COVID-19 since the start of the pandemic in 2020. This time last year, our confirmed case total was 2,288. New Zealander’s collective response to COVID-19 helped us to keep our case numbers low, especially in that first year when the virus was rampant internationally. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 11 May 2022 at 11:55 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 9 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include 8 people who have died over the past 2 days and 1 person who has died since 5 May. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 911 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 4 were from Auckland and 5 were from Canterbury. One person was their 70s — 2 in their 80s and 6 were aged over 90. Of these people, 4 were women and 5 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 12 May 2022 at 1:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 5 people with COVID-19. All these people died within the past 5 days. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,325 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 from Waikato, 1 from Bay of Plenty, and 1 from Canterbury. One person was in their 60s, 2 were in their 70s, 1 was in their 80s, and 1 was aged over 90. Of these people, 2 were women and 3 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 13 June 2022 at 2:58 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 5 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 978 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 17. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 3 people were from the Southern region, 1 was from Auckland and 1 was from Bay of Plenty. 1 person was in their 50s, 1 person was in their 70s, and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 3 were women and 2 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 16 May 2022 at 1:19 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 9,843 community cases, 421 hospitalisations and 8 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,795 — last Tuesday it was 7,927. Today the Ministry of Health is reminding people who test for COVID-19 at home with a rapid antigen test (RAT) to report the test result. You should report the results of your RAT, whether you test positive or negative. You can do this online through My Covid Record (external link) . If you are having trouble using My Covid Record, you can report the results of your RAT over the phone by calling 0800 222 478 and choosing option 3. RATs are currently Aotearoa New Zealand’s primary testing tool for people with COVID-19 symptoms or Household Contacts. How to report your RAT results Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 8 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 986 and the seven-day rolling average of reported deaths is 16. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 3 people were from the Southern region; 2 were from Auckland, 2 were from Northland, and 1 was from Canterbury. 1 person was in their 60s, 4 people were in their 70s, and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 4 were women and 4 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 18 May 2022 at 1:45 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 9,570 community cases, 425 hospitalisations and 32 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers is 8,024 — last Wednesday it was 7,533. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 32 people with COVID-19. The total number of deaths is up by 31 from yesterday as we have removed a case which had been previous reported twice. This case was initially reported on 10 March. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the previous 6 weeks, since 5 April. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,017 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 17. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 2 people were from Northland, 9 from the Auckland region, 2 from Bay of Plenty, 2 from Taranaki, 1 from Tairawhiti, 4 from MidCentral, 2 from Hawke’s Bay, 3 from the Wellington region, 1 from Nelson-Marlborough, 4 from Canterbury and 2 from Southern. One person was in their 20s, 4 people were in their 40s, 2 in their 50s, 4 in their 60s, 9 in their 70s, 9 in their 80s and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 10 were women and 22 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 18 May 2022 at 1:49 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 9,091 community cases, 411 hospitalisations and 5 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,981 — last Thursday it was 7,533. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 5 people with COVID-19, all of whom have died in the past 2 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,022 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 16. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 1 was from the Wellington region, 1 from Bay of Plenty, and 3 from Southern. 1 person was in their seventies, and 4 people were in their 80s. Of these people, 4 were women and 1 was a man. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths.  Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 18 May 2022 at 1:49 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 7,870 community cases, 393 current hospitalisations, and 13 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,937 — last Thursday, it was 7,095. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 13 people with COVID-19 — 11 deaths were in the past 48 hours and 2 were in January this year. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,197 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. One previously announced death has been removed from our totals, as it was reclassified as not a COVID-19 case. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 4 were from the Auckland region, 4 were from Canterbury, 2 from Southern, and 1 each from Taranaki, Hawke’s Bay, and Wellington. Four people were in their 60s, 1 was in their 70s, 5 were in their 80s, and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 7 were male and 6 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 1:22 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A second person who has travelled from overseas to New Zealand has been confirmed as having the BA.4 variant of Omicron. Both identified cases are currently isolating at their homes. BA.4 has been reported in southern Africa and Europe, and in New South Wales. The arrival of this sub-variant in New Zealand is not unexpected. At this stage, the public health settings already in place to manage other Omicron variants are assessed to be appropriate for managing BA.4 and no changes are required. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 7 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the previous 2 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 757 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 11. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 3 people were from Auckland; 1 from Waikato; 1 from Bay of Plenty; 1 from Wairarapa and 1 from Canterbury. One person was in their 40s; 1 in their 50s; 3 in their 80s and 2 were aged over 90. Of these people, 1 was a woman and 6 were men. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 May 2022 at 1:11 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 7,800 community cases, 401 hospitalisations and 17 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers is 8,032 – last Friday it was 7,548. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 17 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,039 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 3 were from the Auckland region, 3 were from the Wellington region, 2 were from Northland, 2 were from Canterbury, 2 were from the Southern region, and 1 each from Waikato, Tairāwhiti, Mid Central, Hawke’s Bay, and Nelson Marlborough. 1 person was in their 50s, 1 was in their 60s, 4 were in their 70s, 5 were in their 80s and 6 were over 90. Of these people, 13 were women and 4 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 20 May 2022 at 1:18 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 9,390 community cases, 522 hospitalisations and 13 deaths. Today’s seven-day rolling average is 8,166, while the seven-day rolling average of cases as at last Friday was 8,683. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 13 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the past seven days. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID-19 being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 646 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths to 11. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, one person was from Northland, six from the Auckland region, one from Waikato, one from Lakes, one from Whanganui, one from the Wellington region and two from the Canterbury region. One person was aged between 10 and 19, five in their 70s, six in their 80s, and one person was over 90. Four were male and nine were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link) We are reminding you that if you are going away this ANZAC weekend, you should have plans in place in the event you contract COVID-19 or are identified as a Household Contact of a case. You would need to self-isolate and likely remain wherever you test positive or become a Household Contact, so there may be extra costs involved in paying for additional accommodation and changing your travel plans. If you have used your own vehicle to travel, you can travel back to your home to isolate, taking public health measures to ensure you don’t infect anyone on your way home – such as maintaining social distance and using self-service petrol stations. However, if you have used public transport or travelled between islands, you won’t be able to isolate at your home. So it is important you have a plan and the ability to isolate where you are holidaying, if you need to do so. There are three actions everyone can do to help protect themselves and others this long weekend. Firstly – be up to date with vaccinations, including a booster if you’ve not yet had one. If you are planning to be away, get boosted before you go. Secondly – wear a mask. Masks are still required in many indoor settings. A good rule of thumb is to wear a mask in indoor public settings as we know that mask use halves the risk of spread of COVID-19. You must also wear a face mask on all flights and public transport, in taxi and ride-share services — unless you are exempt. Face masks at Orange And thirdly – stay home and avoid others if you’re unwell, isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Last updated: 22 April 2022 at 1:26 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 6,000 community cases, 363 hospitalisations and 9 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,712 — last Monday it was 7,702. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 9 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,064 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 1 was from the Auckland region, 2 were from Taranaki, 2 were from Bay of Plenty, 2 were from Wellington and 2 were from Canterbury. One person was in their 30s, 3 were in their 80s and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 8 were female and 1 was male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 23 May 2022 at 1:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 8,435 community cases, 327 hospitalisations and 15 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,507 — last Tuesday it was 7,795. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 15 people with COVID-19, all of whom died in the past 4 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,079 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 3 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 1 was from Taranaki, 2 were from the Wellington region, 1 was from Nelson-Marlborough, 4 were from Canterbury and 3 were from Southern. One person was in their 40s, 2 were in their 60s, 1 was in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s and 8 were aged over 90. Of these people, 9 were female and 6 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 24 May 2022 at 1:11 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand.  Today we are reporting 8,150 community cases, 368 hospitalisations and 11 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,308 — last Wednesday, it was 8,024. We are today reporting our first case of the Omicron subvariant BA.2.12.1 in a community case, without a clear link to the border, in Hawke’s Bay from a test result returned on 10 May 2022. This Omicron subvariant is prevalent in the USA and has been detected at our border for many weeks — there have been 29 imported cases reported since April, so its movement into the community is not unexpected. Emerging data suggests BA.2.12.1 is marginally more transmissible than the subvariants currently circulating in Aotearoa New Zealand. Our genomic surveillance (genomes and wastewater) remains in place to study any new variants and track their spread. The public health settings already in place to manage other Omicron variants are assessed to be appropriate for managing subvariants present in our community and no changes are required. Meanwhile, the Omicron BA.4 and/or BA.5 subvariants have been detected in wastewater samples at Rosedale on Auckland’s North Shore and in Gisborne. The presence of these subvariants in the community is also not unexpected. The BA.4 and BA.5 subvariants are being monitored by the World Health Organization. To date, compared to BA.2, there is clinical data to suggest increased transmissibility but no data suggesting it causes more severe illness. As with all variants of Omicron, public health advice remains the same. Getting your booster remains one of the best defences against COVID-19. Wear a mask indoors, stay home if you are unwell, get tested if you are symptomatic, and get vaccinated. The vast majority of recently sequenced cases in New Zealand continue to be of the Omicron BA.2 sub-variant, with a small number of cases with the BA.1 sub-variant. We are continuing to monitor the transmission of all variants across the country and internationally. These latest detections emphasise the importance of continued wastewater testing, as increasingly ESR sequencing is able to refine what its testing detects. The sequencing can determine that either BA.4 or BA.5 subvariant or both may be present but is not able to be more specific at this stage. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 11 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today are for people who have died in the past 10 days, apart from 1 death on 6 May and 1 death on 11 April. Delays in reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,086 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 10. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 2 were from Taranaki, 1 was from Hawke’s Bay, 1 was from MidCentral, 3 were from Canterbury, and 1 was from Southern. One person was aged under 10, 1 was in their 30s, 1 was in their 60s, 1 was in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s, and 4 were aged over 90. Of these people, 6 were female and 5 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 25 May 2022 at 1:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 6,380 community cases, 508 hospitalisations and four deaths. Today’s 7-day rolling average of case numbers is 8,085 – last Tuesday it was 7,585. Although this is an increase from last week, the number of reported community cases is expected to continue to fluctuate day to day and the overall trend remains a reduction in reported cases. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 4 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the previous 2 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 687 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 2 people were from Taranaki and 2 were from Canterbury. Two were in their 70s and 2 were over 90. Two were women and 2 were men. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 26 April 2022 at 1:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 7,591 community cases, 355 hospitalisations and 16 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,095 — last Thursday, it was 7,981. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 16 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,102 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 7 were from the Auckland region, 3 were from Canterbury, 3 were from the Wellington region, 1 was from Lakes, 1 was from Bay of Plenty, and 1 was from Southern. Two people were in their 60s, 2 were in their 70s, 8 were in their 80s, and 4 were aged over 90. Of these people, 9 were female and 7 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 1:33 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 9,830 community cases, 473 hospitalisations and 23 deaths. Today’s 7-day rolling average of case numbers is 7,884 – similar to last Wednesday, when it was 7,834. The number of COVID-19 related hospital admissions has dropped and is the lowest since 2 March 2022. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 23 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have all died over the previous 6 days apart from 1 death on 3 April. The increase in deaths reported today follows a similar pattern often seen after weekends or public holidays. Delays to reporting can also be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 710 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 2 people were from the Auckland region, 4 from Bay of Plenty, 3 from Waikato, 2 from Taranaki, 2 from MidCentral, 2 from Hawke’s Bay, 1 from Hutt Valley, 1 from Capital and Coast, 5 from Canterbury and 1 from South Canterbury. One was in their 40s, 2 in their 60s, 7 in their 70s, 7 in their 80s, and 6 were over 90. Seven were women and 16 were men. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 27 April 2022 at 1:15 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 6,862 community cases, 350 current hospitalisations and 25 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,960 – last Friday, it was 8,032. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 25 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,127 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 5 were from the Auckland region, 3 were from Northland, 1 was from Waikato, 1 was from Hawke's Bay, 9 were from Canterbury, 2 were from the Wellington region, 1 was from Midcentral, 1 was from Bay of Plenty, and 2 were from Southern. One person was in their 30s, 3 people were in their 40s, 4 were in their 50s, 2 people were in their 60s, 4 were in their 70s, 6 were in their 80s, and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 13 were female and 11 were male. The gender of 1 person was not reported. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 27 May 2022 at 1:06 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 9,047 community cases, 484 hospitalisations and 13 deaths. Today’s seven-day rolling average of case numbers is 7,705 — similar to last Thursday, when it was 7,935. It is an ongoing reminder to remain vigilant. Please continue to follow public health advice to stay at home, away from school or work if you are feeling unwell. Another way to protect you, your whānau and friends is to get vaccinated, if you are not already. It is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and a booster — in addition to first and second doses — gives you greater immunity against Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations. So, if you or your whānau are due for a COVID-19 vaccination — whether it be a first or second dose or a booster — please, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 13 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today are for people who have died over the previous nine days, apart from two deaths on 4 April. Delays to reporting can also be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 723 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 2 people were from the Auckland region, 3 from Bay of Plenty, 2 from Waikato, 1 from Taranaki, 1 from MidCentral, 1 from Hawke’s Bay, and 3 from Canterbury. Two were in their 50s, 2 in their 60s, 1 in their 70s, 3 in their 80s, and 5 were over 90. Five were women and 8 were men. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 28 April 2022 at 1:16 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 8,242 community cases, 480 hospitalisations and 14 deaths. Today’s 7-day rolling average of case numbers is 7,540 — a reduction from last Friday, when it was 8,166. With ongoing community transmission across the motu it is important we all remain vigilant. Please continue to follow public health advice to stay at home, away from school or work if you are feeling unwell. Another way to protect you, your whānau and friends is to get vaccinated, if you are not already. It is free and available for everyone aged five and over. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and a booster — in addition to first and second doses — gives you greater immunity against Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations. So, if you or your whānau are due for a COVID-19 vaccination — whether it be a first or second dose or a booster — please, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 14 people with COVID-19. Eleven of the deaths being reported today are for people who have died over the previous 7 days. Three deaths were between 12 and 17 April. Delays to reporting can also be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 737 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 2 people were from the Auckland region, 1 from Bay of Plenty, 1 from Waikato, 1 from Taranaki, 1 from Whanganui, 1 from MidCentral, 1 from the Wellington region, 5 from Canterbury and 1 from Southern. One person was in their 50s, 2 in their 70s, 7 in their 80s, and 4 were over 90. Eight were women and 6 were men. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 29 April 2022 at 1:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 6,232 community cases, 390 current hospitalisations, and 14 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,850 — last Friday, it was 6,960 Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 14 people with COVID-19. Thirteen people have died in the past 8 days, while we are also reporting the historical death of a case late in 2020. This case had recovered at the time of death but was recently classified as having COVID-19 as a contributory cause of their death. This will continue to happen occasionally due to the timing of the mortality coding process, particularly in instances where deaths where COVID-19 is a contributory cause, and the death falls outside of the 28 day period of testing positive for COVID. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,210 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 1 was from Northland; 3 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Taranaki; 1 from Whanganui; 1 from the Wellington region; 1 from Nelson-Marlborough; 4 from Canterbury; 1 from South Canterbury and 1 from Southern. Two people were in their 60s; 3 in 70s; 3 in their 80s and 6 were aged over 90. Of these people, 4 were women and 10 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. We are today reporting 4 cases of the Omicron subvariant BA.5 and 1 case of the subvariant BA.4 in the community, all based on whole genome sequencing of tests. These are the first BA.4 and BA.5 cases reported in the community, with no clear link to the border. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 3 June 2022 at 1:07 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. With the new school term underway, it is a timely reminder for people to continue to follow public health advice to stay at home and stay away from school or work if you are feeling unwell. Another way to protect you and your whānau is to get vaccinated if you have not already done so. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and getting boosted is an important way people can protect themselves, their whānau and their friends from the virus. Please if you are due for a vaccination, whether it be a second shot or booster, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 20 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the previous 8 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 777 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 1 person was from Northland, 1 from Auckland; 2 from Waikato; 2 from Bay of Plenty; 4 from Tairawhiti; 4 from the Greater Wellington region; 5 from Canterbury and 1 from Southern. One person was in their 50s; 3 in their 60s; 3 in their 70s; 8 in their 80s and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 12 were women and 8 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 3 May 2022 at 1:07 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 5,836 new community cases, 403 current hospitalisations, and 5 deaths in the past 3 days. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,881 — last Monday, it was 7,712. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 5 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,154 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Taranaki, 1 from Canterbury, and 1 was the Southern region. One person was in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s and 1 was over 90. Of these people, 3 were male and 2 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 30 May 2022 at 1:33 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 8,436 new community cases, 389 current hospitalisations, and 18 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,885 — last Monday, it was 7,507. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 18 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,172 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 3 were from Northland, 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 1 was from Taranaki, 2 were from Midcentral, 2 from Nelson Marlborough, 3 from Canterbury, 2 from West Coast and 2 from the Southern region. One person was in their 50s, 2 were in their 60s, 1 was in their 70s, 8 were in their 80s and 6 were over 90. Of these people, 10 were male and 8 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 1:08 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. With ongoing community transmission across the motu it is important we all remain vigilant. Please continue to follow public health advice to stay at home, away from school or work if you are feeling unwell. Another way to protect yourself, your whānau and friends is to get vaccinated, if you are not already. It is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and a booster – in addition to first and second doses – gives you greater immunity against Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations. So, if you or your whānau are due for a COVID-19 vaccination – whether it be a first or second dose, or a booster – please, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 24 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include 12 people who have died over the past 3 days and an additional 12 people who have died since 5 March. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 801 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 9 people were from Auckland; 4 from Waikato; 2 from Bay of Plenty; 1 from Whanganui; 1 from MidCentral; 2 from the Greater Wellington region; 3 from Canterbury and 2 from Southern. One person was under-10; 1 was between 10 and 19-years-old, 2 were in their 40s; 1 in their 50s, 2 in their 60s; 9 in their 70s; 5 in their 80s and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 7 were female and 17 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 4 May 2022 at 1:07 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today’s 7-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,684 — last Thursday it was 7,705 . The number of community cases today is an important reminder that we all continue to have a part to play in minimising the spread of COVID-19 in our communities. Please continue to follow public health advice to stay at home, away from school or work if you are feeling unwell. Another way to protect yourself, your whānau and friends is to get vaccinated, if you are not already. It is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19, and a booster — in addition to first and second doses — gives you greater immunity against Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations. So, if you or your whānau are due for a COVID-19 vaccination — whether it be a first or second dose or a booster — please, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 20 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include 18 people who have died over the past 5 days and an additional 2 people who have died since 24 April. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 821 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 3 people were from Auckland; 1 from Waikato; 5 from Bay of Plenty; 2  from Hawke’s Bay; 1 from the Greater Wellington region; 1 from Nelson-Marlborough, 5 from Canterbury and 2 from Southern. One person was under 10; 1 in their 50s, 5 in their 60s; 2 in their 70s; 7 in their 80s and 4 were aged over 90. Of these people, 12 were female and 8 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 5 May 2022 at 1:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 7,347 community cases, 363 hospitalisations and 24 deaths. Today’s 7-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,555 – last Friday it was 7,540. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 24 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include 12 people who have died over the past 3 days and an additional 12 people who have died since 6 April. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 845 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 15. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 1 person was from Northland, 8 from Auckland; 4 from Waikato; 1 from Bay of Plenty; 1 from Lakes DHB area; 1 from Taranaki; 1 from MidCentral; 2 from the Greater Wellington region; 2 from Canterbury and 3 from Southern. Two people were in their 40s; 1 in their 50s, 1 in their 60s; 7 in their 70s; 8 in their 80s and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 13 were female and 11 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 6 May 2022 at 1:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Over the past 2 days, there have been: In the last 24 hours, there have been: Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 14 people with COVID-19. Today’s reported deaths include 7 recorded yesterday and 7 recorded today. They take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,243 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 10. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: 1 was from Northland; 2 were from the Auckland region; 1 was from Waikato; 1 was from Taranaki; 5 were from Canterbury and 4 were from the Southern region. Two people were in their 50s; 1 was in their 60s; 4 were in their 70s; 5 were in their 80s and 2 were aged over 90. Of these people, 8 were men and 6 were women. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 7 June 2022 at 1:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 24 people with COVID-19. Twelve of these people have died in the past 4 days, and 12 have died since 25 April. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,267 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: 2 were from Northland; 6 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 2 were from Bay of Plenty, 1 was from Lakes DHB area, 1 from Taranaki; 1 from Hawke’s Bay; 1 from MidCentral, 1 from the Wellington region; 3 from Canterbury; 5 from Southern. Three people were in their 50s; 2 in their 60s, 5  in 70s; 7 in their 80s and 7 were aged over 90. Of these people, 10 were women and 14 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 9 June 2022 at 1:06 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 27 people with COVID-19. Twenty-two of these people have died in the past 5 days, and 5 have died since 29 March. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,294 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: 9 were from the Auckland region, 3 were from Waikato, 1 was from Lakes DHB area, 1 from Taranaki; 1 from MidCentral, 5 from the Wellington region; 1 from Nelson-Marlborough; 4 from Canterbury and 2 from the Southern region. One person was in their 40s; 2 in their 60s, 7 in 70s; 9 in their 80s and 8 were aged over 90. Of these people, 14 were women and 13 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 9 June 2022 at 1:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. For the most up-to-date information about our managed isolation and quarantine facilities visit the managed isolation and quarantine website. Get information about:  New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. Last updated: 29 October 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz (external link) as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. New Zealanders who are up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccinations will be able to download an updated My Vaccine Pass from 24 May. Since the introduction of My Vaccine Pass last year, the COVID-19 vaccination landscape has changed. While My Vaccine Pass is not legally required, people are encouraged to have their pass for when it might be needed. Updated My Vaccine Passes will be available for anyone aged 12 and over who is up to date with their vaccinations for their age group and for the type of vaccine they have received. This includes boosters for those over 18. In April 2022 the legal requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Passes was removed. Some businesses may voluntarily keep My Vaccine Pass requirements as a condition of entry. For this reason, it is a good idea to have an up-to-date My Vaccine Pass handy in case you are asked for it. Everyone should stay up-to-date with their vaccinations and download their updated pass as it is an important record of their vaccination status. We have learnt over the last couple of years there are no certainties with COVID-19 and with new variants circling the globe, it is best we are prepared for every eventuality. An updated My Vaccine Passes will have an expiry date 6 months from the date of issue. The pass can be requested at any time provided people continue to be up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccinations. The updated My Vaccine Pass will have a slightly different look to the current version and a refreshed design, but it will still have a QR code. Anyone aged 12 and over can get a My Vaccine Pass if they have had their recommended COVID-19 vaccinations. Find more information about the updated My Vaccine Pass: Proof of your vaccination status Last updated: 13 May 2022 at 10:46 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 11-20 of 985 updates 30 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 May 2022 A second booster is recommended for the most vulnerable 6 months after the first booster. Several hundred thousand people will be eligible. 26 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 May 2022 Orange is the most appropriate setting to manage the Omicron outbreak as we head into winter. 23 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 21-30 of 985 updates 18 May 2022 The Ministry of Health has expedited the process for formally coding the cause of death for those who are known to have died within 28 days of COVID-19. 18 May 2022 The Government has welcomed data showing the rate at which New Zealanders died from all causes during the COVID-19 pandemic has been lower than expected. 18 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 May 2022 Workers subject to the Vaccinations Order who test positive for COVID-19 for the first time, can get a temporary medical exemption from getting a booster dose. 17 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 16 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 May 2022 Winter is just around the corner and with it, a risk of catching COVID-19 again. See the latest guidance. 13 May 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 13 May 2022 If you are up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations you can download an updated My Vaccine Pass from 24 May. 12 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 31-40 of 985 updates 11 May 2022 New Zealand’s border will reopen to all tourists and visa holders from 11:59pm 31 July 2022. 11 May 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 10 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 May 2022 From today, tamariki aged 5 to 11 who are severely immunocompromised can receive a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 04 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 May 2022 The Government is broadening the ability for residence class visa holders to re-enter New Zealand. 02 May 2022 From 11:59pm 2 May, people currently permitted to arrive via the maritime border do not need to quarantine or isolate for 7 days. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 41-50 of 985 updates 02 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 May 2022 The Government is partnering with Air New Zealand to trial an innovative new COVID-19 testing solution that uses Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification (LAMP). 29 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Apr 2022 New Zealanders who contract COVID-19 now have access to 6 medicines proven to safely prevent the most severe and life-threatening symptoms of the virus. 28 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 27 Apr 2022 People who have genuine reasons for not being able to wear a face mask can access a new personalised exemption card from the end of May. 26 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 22 Apr 2022 Post Vaccine Symptom Check survey results show that most tamariki aged 5 to 11 did not experience a reaction after getting the child Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 22 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 51-60 of 985 updates 21 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 20 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 20 Apr 2022 The Board has published an interim report about its findings on the safety data for the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 19 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 14 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 13 Apr 2022 Watch today's decision on our traffic light settings at 1pm. 13 Apr 2022 Kiwis can enjoy the long weekend with greater freedoms across the country from 11:59pm on Wednesday as New Zealand moves to Orange. 12 Apr 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 11 Apr 2022 The COVID-19 Vaccine Independent Safety Monitoring Board has notified the Ministry of Health of a third death in New Zealand linked to the Pfizer vaccine. 11 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 941-950 of 985 updates 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 951-960 of 985 updates 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020  12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 961-970 of 985 updates 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 971-980 of 985 updates 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 981-985 of 985 updates 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. Monday: There is no media conference. Tuesday: Media conference at 1pm. Wednesday, Thursday, Friday: There is no media conference. We will update this page if the schedule changes. Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 13 June 2022 at 12:30 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements Last updated: 9 June 2022 at 3:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Follow us on social media: We are here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have 2 simple rules for a safe social community: Comments and messages submitted to our social media pages may be used for reporting purposes. Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) Last updated: 8 June 2022 at 1:44 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. What you need to know Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms, and what we know about Long COVID. Advice for people who are at higher risk of more severe illness if they get COVID-19. We all need to be prepared to self-isolate if we get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up healthy habits, like wearing a mask and staying home when sick. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency and you need urgent help, call 111 immediately even if you and your household are isolating. This section contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. Find the latest information and advice for whānau, hapū, and iwi Māori. Find the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities, including translations. Misinformation about COVID-19 works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 4:32 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants and symptoms. Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Omicron is in our community. There are 3 phases to our response. Find out what this means for you. Last updated: 25 May 2022 at 10:54 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Symptoms can include one or more of the following: Less common symptoms may include: These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. Call: How to get a COVID-19 test If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. While you have symptoms: If you have COVID-19 COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) Last updated: 8 June 2022 at 12:52 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. At Phase 3, the focus is on safely managing COVID-19 at home. This means we can keep our hospital beds free for people who are vulnerable and need medical treatment. There are thousands of new cases every day. Most people will self-manage at home. Health and social services will focus on families and communities that have the highest needs. You should only get a COVID-19 test if: Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms and Household Contacts. You can order RATs online or over the phone, to pick up at a site near you. You should record your RAT result — even if it is negative. You can record your result online through My Covid Record or by calling 0800 222 478 . How to get a COVID-19 test How to report your RAT result If you test positive, you will need to isolate for 7 days. If you have COVID-19 If you are a Household Contact, you will need to isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive, until they complete their 7 days of isolation. You will need to test on Day 3 and Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to begin 7 days of isolation as a case. Household Contacts Close Contacts do not need to isolate, but you should monitor for symptoms for 10 days. Close Contacts Critical workers can keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Critical workers  Self-service tools are available for people to provide information for contact tracing and case investigation. If you test positive you will be sent a text with a link to complete an online form to identify high-risk locations and people you have had contact with. The Ministry of Health will focus on supporting people who do not have access to or are not confident using technology. Bluetooth tracing continues to be used. Locations of interest will not be published during Phase 3. How contact tracing works  If you are self-isolating at home, you can get help if you need essential supplies like food or medicine. If your symptoms worsen, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. They will tell you what you need to do next. Vulnerable people will have access to clinical care to help them self-isolate safely. Help if you are self isolating Financial support COVID-19 Support Payment for businesses | ird.govt.nz (external link) Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities.   There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. COVID-19 is still spreading in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children Last updated: 30 May 2022 at 4:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current circulating variants of concern are: The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. It is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. Omicron, like other variants, continues to change. There are now 2 main sub-variants — BA.1 and BA.2. Both of these are circulating in the community, with BA.2 more dominant. We have a very effective system in place for identifying new variants in New Zealand. The possibility of new variants like Omicron is why we continue to perform whole-genome sequencing on cases from overseas and those not linked to a community cluster. COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Although Omicron is a new variant, we have already learned a lot from experiences overseas. Compared to Delta, Omicron: COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 COVID-19 causes 2 major issues that cause harm when someone is infected — a viral attack on the body and in some cases an immune reaction. Studies for new treatments cover both issues and concentrate on 3 areas. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | health.govt.nz (external link) Pharmac is funding appropriate COVID-19 treatments for New Zealanders. The agency decides which medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand. Pharmac has secured treatments for COVID-19, including: Medsafe will assess these medicines before treatment for COVID-19. Find more information on Pharmac's website: Pharmac is funding COVID-19 treatments | pharmac.govt.nz (external link) Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) Last updated: 11 April 2022 at 8:23 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. I am looking for... The COVID-19 Healthline kaimahi support people with information and advice about COVID-19. This includes clinical advice about symptoms and non-clinical advice about testing locations. Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Interpreter services are available. Last updated: 4 March 2022 at 2:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples, disabled people and youth. Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. Popular topics For testing or vaccination advice, call the Disability Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items, call the COVID-19 welfare phone line on 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. You may need a test if: You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. You can also get advice from the Disability Healthline. Call 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you have mobility or other accessibility challenges and are unable to leave your home to get to a collection site, you can arrange to have a RAT kit delivered to you. If you have done the test yourself, or a support person has done it for you, record the result online or over the phone. Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with the latest, trusted information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so that you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) You will need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and also try to avoid contact with people you live with. The people you live with will also need to self-isolate. Start counting from Day 0, which is the first day you had symptoms or when you got your positive test result (whichever came first). Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. Advice for carers on supporting someone who has COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. You can get a booster now if: If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. Find out more about vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised (external link) To book your vaccination or get advice: Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, let your support provider know that you have COVID-19 so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow appropriate infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people, an impairment, disability, or physical or mental health condition can mean wearing a mask is not possible. If you have a legitimate reason that means wearing a face mask is not suitable, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can also request a card by calling 0800 11 12 13 or by texting 8988. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass | health.govt.nz (external link) Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. We are protecting Aoteroa New Zealand from COVID-19 using a system called the 'traffic lights'. Its official name is the COVID-19 Protection Framework. Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing. Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 10:37 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If your support worker gets COVID-19, the disability support organisation they are from is responsible for finding a replacement. In some cases, they may only be able to provide essential services while your regular support worker recovers. Your support provider will check in with you about any changes. If you would prefer that a family member or friend support you instead, discuss this with your disability support organisation. If you usually get support from a family member or friend, or you individually contract support people, make a plan for alternate support in case they get COVID-19. Options could include: Needs Assessment and Service Coordination services | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live in the same home as your carer, and they are well enough to continue providing care, they can do so. They will need appropriate infection prevention control and personal protective equipment. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) If you receive support in your home, it is important to have a support plan. This should include your important health information and care routines. If your regular carer becomes unwell and you need emergency care, this plan can be shared with the new carer. This means your care and support can continue safely. Your disability support provider can help you create a plan. You can also use the emergency care planning tools available on the Carers New Zealand website. Emergency care planning tools | carers.net.nz (external link) There are a few things to consider, specific to COVID-19: Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 4:36 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The best way to protect you, your whānau and your community from COVID-19 is to get vaccinated. Karawhiua provides trusted and up-to-date information on the vaccine for whānau and Māori communities. Be a doer! Karawhiua (external link) I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. At Red, there are restrictions on indoor gatherings at marae to help limit the spread of COVID-19, and protect the safety and wellbeing of whānau, hapū, and iwi . It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether to allow gatherings and whether gatherings are held inside or outside. Advice for marae at Red At Orange, g atherings at marae can go ahead. There are no restrictions on indoor or outdoor gatherings. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. Gatherings at Orange He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB]  If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Check out free services and resources Funding and support is available. Find more information from Te Puni Kōkiri. Funding and support | tpk.govt.nz (external link) Ruthie was 7 months hapū, with her baby Hope, when she contracted COVID-19 last year at a tangihanga. She shares her experience of being the first hapū māmā with COVID-19 in Aotearoa and her thoughts on the vaccine. Ruthie’s story is part of the Te Puni Kōkiri-led Karawhiua campaign which encourages whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities to make an informed choice about getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Watch Ruthie’s full story at Karawhiua (external link) Last updated: 24 April 2022 at 11:12 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information in Pacific languages: Check out the range of free services and resources available to you It's time to dial up the talanoa, helping our youth to navigate COVID-19 conversations with their parents, family and peers. Let's Talanoa with Dr Lesina Nakhid-Schuster and Rokalani Lavea. The Ministry for Pacific Peoples has created an educational video about the Pfizer vaccine that is also available in 9 Pacific languages. When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. The vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 12 and over. It will help to protect Aotearoa from COVID-19. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Get your COVID-19 vaccination Make sure you get the latest news and updates from reliable sources. Last updated: 16 January 2022 at 11:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people. Popular topics For free health advice, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items, call the COVID-19 welfare phone line on 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. Information about our response to COVID-19 — including vaccination, self-isolation guidance and traffic light settings — is available in Large Print and audio. Large Print and audio You may need a test if: You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. You can also get free advice from Healthline — call 0800 358 5453 If you have mobility or other accessibility challenges and are unable to leave your home to get to a collection site, you can arrange to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Report your positive or negative RAT result by phone or online. Reporting a result means you can get extra support if you need it while self-isolating. Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. Report your positive RAT result online or over the phone. If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with trusted, up-to-date information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . You need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and try to avoid contact with people you live with. The people you live with also need to isolate. Start counting from Day 0. This is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive (whichever came first). Use the household isolation timeline tool (external link) Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. Find information on the Health Navigator website about keeping safe, testing and getting support. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. People aged 18 and over can get a booster if it has been 3 months since they completed their primary course. For most people, this is 2 doses. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Some people who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. Vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised | health.govt.nz (external link) A second booster is recommended for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. We will update this page with information about who is eligible and how to book in the next few weeks. To book your vaccination or get advice, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26. Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, tell your support provider so they can put protective measures in place.Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. Some people cannot wear masks. If you have a legitimate reason for not wearing a face mask, such as a disability or a physical or mental health condition,you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. We are protecting Aoteroa New Zealand from COVID-19 using a system called the 'traffic lights'. Its official name is the COVID-19 Protection Framework. Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing. Last updated: 13 June 2022 at 5:07 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 is in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are useful in poorly ventilated indoor areas and when you are around people you do not know. They stop particles spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This is particularly useful when someone has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. You must wear a face mask in some locations. When to wear a face mask         If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you should get a test. You must stay home until you get a negative result. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. COVID-19 symptoms How to get a COVID-19 test Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Using hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs on your hands. Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. The risk of becoming infected with COVID-19 increases the closer you are to a person and the longer you are close to that person. The risk is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. The risk is lower outside when there are fewer people, and when you are further away from others. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. Find out more about reducing the risk of COVID-19 through ventilation | health.govt.nz (external link) You are not required to maintain physical distance from others in the traffic light system. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it is in the community. As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to keep a record of where you have been for contact tracing purposes. In case you do test positive for COVID-19, it is still a good idea to: We encourage you to not remove the NZ COVID Tracer app from your phone just yet. Bluetooth tracing is still being used to notify people if they have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) The contact tracing system may need to return if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. Keep track of where you have been Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a booster if it has been at least 3 months since your second dose. Vaccination remains one of the best tools in the fight against COVID-19. Even if you have had COVID-19, getting a booster once enough time has passed gives you another a layer of protection from the virus. Being up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations also helps protect people who are more at risk of becoming seriously ill from the virus and people who cannot be vaccinated such as babies and children under 5 years old. COVID-19 vaccines Last updated: 19 May 2022 at 1:38 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to maintain records for contact tracing purposes. However, if you test positive for COVID-19, you need to tell the people you have been in contact with while infectious that you have COVID-19. This can include others you live with, your colleagues or workplace, friends, or school. Even if your contacts do not have to isolate, they should still be given the information so they can make decisions for themselves. It is still a good idea to: If you test positive, you will be sent a link to an online form, where you can share: This information can help stop the spread of the virus in high-risk locations and protect our vulnerable communities. You can continue to use the NZ COVID Tracer app. We recommend you keep the NZ COVID Tracer app on your phone. We may bring back the contact tracing system if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz (external link) You can also use the NZ COVID Tracer app to find key links to: To access these links, select ‘Dashboard’, and open the ‘more info’ tab. You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz (external link) If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] You can also order copies of the NZ COVID Tracer booklet if you cannot print your own. You can also order booklets in other languages. The Ministry of Health is no longer publishing locations of interest. Case investigations are focused on high-risk exposures and Household Contacts. Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 10:22 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: You are not required to wear a face mask when visiting a voting place to vote in a general election. This applies to people going to cast their vote, and to anyone supporting or assisting them. Face masks at work We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: You are not required to wear a face mask when visiting a voting place to vote in a general election. This applies to people going to cast their vote, and to anyone supporting or assisting them. Face masks at work You are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings. Some people must wear a face mask when they are working with members of the public, customers or clients while they are at work — unless they are exempt. You must wear a face mask if you work at a gathering — it does not need to be a medical grade one. The places where you must wear a medical grade face mask if you are working include: You must wear a face mask if you work at a gathering — it does not need to be a medical grade one. The places where you must wear a medical grade face mask if you are working include: You do not need to wear face masks at work at Green. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You do not need to wear a face mask in non-public facing workplaces. However, employers can apply their own policies for mask use. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors. Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health has information about the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) in a health and disability care setting. PPE in health and disability care settings | health.govt.nz (external link) Some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. There are also some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. Find a list of exemptions — where a face mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. Who does not need to wear a face mask Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 4:30 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can still make and wear fabric face masks. Fabric face masks should have at least 3 layers and are effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. They must be attached to your head with loops around your ears or head — you cannot use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts that have been pulled up over your face. You must also make sure your face mask covers your nose and mouth properly. When you must wear a face mask  Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 11:03 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Never share face masks with other people. We do not recommend face masks be worn by: Do not re-use a face mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: Make sure it is: Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: Use either: The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask.  Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put masks in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face masks. Use either: The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face mask safely. Last updated: 27 January 2022 at 1:40 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: A mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. There are several things you should think about when selecting the right face mask for you. This includes: However, any face mask is better than no face mask.  You can use a fabric face mask. But the effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks, especially in higher-risk indoor settings. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many disposable masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection as the other layer, preferably a fabric mask can help to stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can submerge them in boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear, dispose of them. Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection, when used correctly. These face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ so that there is a tight seal against the wearer’s face. It is important to follow manufacturer’s instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face so there are no gaps. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face. If there is not a tight seal around the face, these face masks do not provide any better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for 5 to 7 days between each use. If they no longer provide a tight fit around your face, then you should dispose of them. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. Demand for these masks has been high. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. Currently frontline staff at the border and in healthcare settings who are at greater risk of exposure to COVID-19 need these face masks. Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 11:03 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. People who have genuine reasons for not being able to wear a face mask can now access a personalised Mask Exemption Pass. If it is unsuitable for you to wear a face mask, we encourage you to apply for the new Mask Exemption Pass. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass | health.govt.nz (external link) There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. We know face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. You still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can show the card to transport operators, retailers and service providers. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass if you cannot wear a face mask — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass (external link) Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, make sure you keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 11:02 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Support to get through COVID-19 | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) The All Right? website shares practical tips for looking after yourself and your whānau. Getting through together | allright.org.nz (external link) You can also find a list of tools and information on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Mental health and wellbeing resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 19 April 2022 at 2:00 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and the vaccine work against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. I f you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Last updated: 16 December 2021 at 4:37 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine from a number of trusted sources, including: Find answers to all your vaccine questions, including how safe it is and what side effects you might get, and watch videos about vaccines. COVID-19 vaccines questioned answered | covid19.govt.nz Check out the health advice for you about COVID-19, vaccines, testing, how to take care of yourself and much more. COVID-19: Health advice for the public | health.govt.nz (external link) Find trusted information for you and your whānau on Karawhiua. It is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. Karawhiua | karawhiua.nz (external link) When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. Watch COVID-19 vaccine educational videos to find out about the vaccination journey and how the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine works. COVID-19 information from the Ministry for Pacific Peoples | mpp.govt.nz (external link) Your local district health board (DHB) has information about health and disability services in your region, including information on vaccinations. District health board websites | health.govt.nz (external link) You can also keep up to date by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (IMAC) provides New Zealanders with a local source of independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research regarding vaccine-preventable diseases and the benefits and risks of immunisation. Immunisation Advisory Centre | immune.org.nz (external link) The World Health Organization works worldwide to promote health, keep the world safe, and serve the vulnerable. World Health Organization | who.int (external link) You may need to engage with someone or a group who are spreading false and misleading information within your community or online. It is easy to feel compelled to go and directly confront them. This is not the ideal approach and it may not always be obvious to them what information is not true or factual. Here are some tips on how you might address the situation: Download printed guidance for responding to false information. Guidance for responding to false information [PDF, 759 KB] There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video Last updated: 29 November 2021 at 10:38 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. We can all help stop the spread of misinformation by reporting fake accounts, or pages and domains that repeatedly post or share misinformation. Most misinformation and disinformation is legal. And people have the right to express their opinion. But if you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: Report to Netsafe any online harms including bullying and harassment, misinformation and hate speech/extremism. Report harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Misinformation, including leaflets and scams, can also be reported to CERT NZ. Report COVID-19 misinformation (external link)  Scammers look for ways to trick people into sharing their personal or financial details. Scams and fraud exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police on 105 . Call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link)  There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video Last updated: 29 November 2021 at 10:39 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. There is misinformation and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what it means. There are 3 kinds of misinformation: You might see all of them on social media, including memes, on websites, videos, and in publications, like pamphlets that arrive in your letterbox. They can cause harm because you might make decisions about your health based on the incorrect information that you read or hear. Often misinformation is not deliberately created to harm you. But it is really important that you do not share it, so that it does not spread. Harmful online content includes cyberbullying and inappropriate material, such as violent and sexual material that can cause emotional and physiological distress. Online bullying (also known as cyberbullying) occurs when someone uses digital technology to send, post or publish content intended to cause harm to another person. It can include: Netsafe describes distressing content as content that is hateful content, sexual material or illegal material (like age-restricted material or extreme violence). Offensive or illegal content may include topics, images or other information that could be prohibited in New Zealand. The content can also be upsetting to a young person when they discover it. It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. Netsafe has more information, advice and resources about how to stay safe online. Netsafe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Keep It Real Online has information for tamariki (children) and rangatahi (young people) about being safe online, and also has tools and resources for parents and caregivers. Keep It Real Online | keepitrealonline.govt.nz (external link) You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video Last updated: 29 November 2021 at 10:38 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if you: Our restrictions have eased, but we still need to keep up healthy habits to keep ourselves and our whānau safe. Our high vaccination rates mean we can slowly start to focus on returning to a normal way of life. For some people, the easing of restrictions can be stressful — especially if we have friends or whānau who are vulnerable. It is okay to feel scared or anxious as we adjust to the new settings. You can decide what additional measures suit you best. Let whānau, friends, neighbours and colleagues know what they can do to support you. If you are worried, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Even if you have had COVID-19, you should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations you are eligible for. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. If you are at high risk of getting seriously ill if you do test positive for COVID-19 again, we recommend you talk to your doctor or health professional for advice on the best timing for your vaccinations. You may be able to receive your vaccination sooner. As restrictions ease, your employer may ask you to return to the workplace. We encourage you to talk to your employer about flexible working arrangements. If you have been working from home for a long time, it can take a while to adjust back to working in an office or other workplace. Let your colleagues and employer know if there is something they can do to make working easier and safer for you. If you work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working. If your child is immunocompromised, or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk to their school or kura about whether changes can be made at their school. The best way to protect your tamariki is by getting them vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination advice for 5 to 11 year olds You can support friends and whānau by: There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support You can find support to access food and other essential supplies, and if you need help with accommodation. COVID-19 support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support Last updated: 5 May 2022 at 2:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you or someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, all of you must isolate for at least 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone outside your household to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you all need to self-isolate. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 176 KB] If you need support while you are self-isolating Looking after your mental wellbeing Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) How to self-isolate Note. This video refers to a COVID-19 Readiness Checklist which has now been revised to be the COVID-19: Isolation Plan. Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB]  Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 4:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. I am looking for... The COVID-19 Healthline kaimahi support people with information and advice about COVID-19. This includes clinical advice about symptoms and non-clinical advice about testing locations. Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Interpreter services are available. Last updated: 23 May 2022 at 2:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. Most people who get COVID-19 should be able to manage their symptoms safely at home. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. If you or someone in your household: Call 111 immediately. Tell them you or someone in your household has COVID-19 when you call, so the paramedics can care for you safely. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. If you need medical advice about your symptoms, or other health advice while you and your household are isolating, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Healthline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.    If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly. Maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance and wear a face mask, if possible. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link)  If you are isolating at home because of a public health order, you need to be prepared if there is a natural disaster. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 4:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Looking for information in other languages? Information in 30+ languages Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. What you need to know Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 12:00 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information on contact tracing, what you need to do to support contact tracing if you test positive, and receiving alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. You are a Household Contact if you live with, or spend at least 8 hours at a residence with, someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Find out what you need to do. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate. Find out what a critical service is, who is eligible to be a critical worker and where you can find more information about the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Find out what you need to do if you live with someone who is waiting for a test result, self-isolating or a Close Contact. Last updated: 17 June 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You are a Close Contact in the following situations: You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be notified by: You do not need to self-isolate if you are a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if you develop any, get a test. COVID-19 symptoms Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 8:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Part of New Zealand’s response to Omicron will mean an increased use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) for critical workers. Using RATs will make sure workers are available to maintain critical infrastructure and supply chains. Critical workers are people who work for a critical service or organisation. If you are part of the critical workforce and live with someone who has COVID-19, you may be able to keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. During the Omicron response, workers at registered critical services who are identified as Household Contacts may continue to work. Who is a Household Contact Close Contacts are not eligible for the scheme, as they are not required to isolate. To qualify for an exemption as a critical worker, you must: Under the scheme, you are only allowed to go to work — you cannot go anywhere else. When you are not at work, you must self-isolate. You should talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria to be part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. How to get free RATs How to report your RAT results Critical services include: Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) You may also be able to keep working if you are a Household Contact if you are not customer facing and can maintain your bubble while working. This applies to any workers or sole traders, not just critical workers. To work under a bubble of 1, workers must: You do not need to use rapid antigen tests to return to work and businesses will not need to register for the ‘bubble of 1’. Bubble of 1 for workers who are Close Contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 8 June 2022 at 10:40 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You are a Household Contact if you: You are also a Household Contact if you do not normally share a residence with the person who has COVID-19, but have spent a night together in the same room. For people who are travelling or holidaying around New Zealand, Household Contacts include people who are sharing non-communal holiday accommodation such as a: If you get COVID-19 while travelling The following people may be Close Contacts, but are not Household Contacts: Advice for Close Contacts Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: While you are isolating, try to avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Your isolation ends at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | covid19.health.nz (external link) For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact | covid19.health.nz (external link) If more than 1 person in your household tests positive after the first person, you do not need to restart your isolation period. Only restart your 7-day isolation period if you test positive on Day 3 or Day 7, or develop new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | covid19.health.nz (external link) Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months — even if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. If you develop new cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms within 90 days of your original infection, and are at low risk of severe illness, stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. You do not need to take a rapid antigen test (RAT). If you have an underlying health condition or have symptoms that are getting worse, seek advice from a health practitioner or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . After you have had COVID-19 Some people who are Household Contacts and critical workers may be able to still go to work through the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. When you are not at work, you must follow the self-isolation guidance. Critical workers need to be fully vaccinated, have no symptoms and have a negative RAT before going to work. Your employer will let you know if the scheme applies to you. Critical workers There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 3:53 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who is has tested positive for COVID-19. Household Contacts You do not need to self-isolate if you are living with someone who is waiting for a COVID-19 test result. Take common-sense precautions to limit contact with the person until they receive their test result. Monitor yourself for symptoms and get a test if you develop any. If the person receives a positive COVID-19 test result, follow the guidance for Household Contacts. You do not need to self-isolate if you live with a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if they develop, get a test. How to get a COVID-19 test Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 8:35 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been  Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 8:29 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Find out when you can get a free RAT or PCR test, where to find a community testing centre, and how to report RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. If you test positive or negative, you should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT). You can only do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. What to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19 or are a probable case. There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs), so follow the instructions in your kit. Positive or negative, you should report your result online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. Last updated: 24 February 2022 at 12:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. When you should get a test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. What you need to know A COVID-19 test is free if it is part of the public health response. This includes if you: If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test. If you are unsure, talk to your local healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Check the list of COVID-19 symptoms If you live with a person who has COVID-19 or have spent at least 8 hours with them in the same residence, you need to get a test on their Day 3 and Day 7 of self-isolation. Advice for Household Contacts If you are a Close Contact, you do not need to get a test unless you develop symptoms. Advice for Close Contacts People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 can get a free test from their doctor or community health provider. They will decide which type of test is best for you. If you want to get a test for another reason — for example, because you are visiting friends or whānau — you can now buy a RAT at some retail outlets. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again within 90 days of a previous diagnosis and: If you have COVID-19 symptoms more than 90 days from a previous diagnosis you should take a RAT and follow advice for a first infection if you test positive. There are 2 types of COVID-19 tests available to the general public in New Zealand. COVID-19 test results and their accuracy | health.govt.nz (external link) You are allowed to leave your home to get a COVID-19 test while you are self-isolating. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Requesting RATs to use at home is an easy step-by-step process. RATs can be requested on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to validate your order. You will be issued an order number. You can then collect your RAT order from a collection site listed on Healthpoint, or have someone collect it for you. Your doctor may offer COVID-19 tests. Call them to find out and follow their advice.   Test instructions vary depending on the brand. Many rapid antigen testing kits follow the instructions below, but not all. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions. All RAT kits should be kept out of reach of young children and stored safely according to the manufacturer’s instructions. How to use a RAT How to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) If you get a positive test result, you must self-isolate immediately and follow the advice for people who have COVID-19. Your test result does not need to be confirmed with a PCR unless advised. What steps to take if you have tested positive If you get a negative test result and do not have symptoms, it is likely you do not have COVID-19. If you have symptoms, stay at home and carry out another RAT 48 hours later. If your symptoms get worse, contact your local healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . It is possible for someone with COVID-19 to get a negative RAT result. This can be because there was not enough virus in the sample, or because the test was not carried out correctly. If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must take another RAT. Follow the manufacturer's instructions on how long to wait between tests. Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. Reporting your result will allow you to be provided with any support required while isolating. You can report your result online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result After your test, you must self-isolate until you receive a negative result. You will get your results in a text message from 2328 . It will take between 2 and 5 days. If you test positive, the text message will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. What steps to take if you have tested positive  Last updated: 7 June 2022 at 10:24 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Get ready by blowing your nose and then washing and drying your hands. Lay out the contents of your RAT kit — a tube of solution, a stopper, a swab, and the test cassette. Remove the swab (it looks like a long cotton ear bud). Take the soft end and gently glide swab in 1 nostril, going low and slow, about 2 centimetres deep. Twirl the swab over the surface of the nostril around 5 times. Then repeat in your other nostril, going round again slowly 5 times. Get the tube with solution, open it, keep it upright and make sure not to spill it. Place the soft end of the swab into the solution and swirl about 5 times. You want to make sure that the swab is soaked. Then pinch the swab as you are removing it – squeeze as much liquid out as you can, to keep it in the tube. Place the stopper firmly on the tube. Give the tube a shake or flick a couple of times so it gets a good mix. Then leave upright for about a minute. With the test cassette ready on a flat surface, take your tube (with the solution of your sample), and turn it upside down. Follow the kit instructions as to how many drops are needed for your test. Squeeze the drops through the stopper onto the well. Wait for 15 minutes — set a timer if that helps. Again, check with the kit instructions as the waiting time may differ. Check for results. If there is no line at the C (C for control), or there are 3 lines, then the test did not work properly this time (it is invalid — this sometimes happens). You will need to do another test. If you see a single line at the C, this shows that the test has worked and you are negative for COVID-19. If you see 2 lines (even if it is a faint line at the T) then this shows you have tested positive for COVID-19. You and your household will need to isolate for at least 7 days. Please report your results (positive or negative): This will allow you to be provided with any support required while isolating. How to report your RAT result Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 4:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Reporting your results will allow you to be provided with any support required while isolating. Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. Sign up for My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 1. Log in to My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 2. Under 'Report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result', tap or click 'Report a test result'.  3. Read the information provided. Tap or click 'Continue'.  4. Tap or click 'Myself', enter your mobile number and tick the box if you consent to receiving COVID-19 information. Tap or click 'Continue'.  5. Indicate which lines are visible on your test by selecting 'Yes' or 'No'.  6. Tap or click 'Enter result'. Advice about what to do next will appear.  If you have entered the wrong result by mistake, you will have 20 minutes to remove it. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, or need help with My Covid Record, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478  You can report a RAT result for someone else through your own My Covid Record account. This will allow them to be provided with any support required while isolating. You will need their: My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) You can report a RAT result over the phone if you are having trouble using My Covid Record, or want to report someone else's RAT result and do not have their NHI. Testing and reporting requirements for international travellers Last updated: 7 June 2022 at 10:21 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. What you need to know Find out what you need to do: Life at Orange Face masks at Orange COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Last updated: 12 May 2022 at 4:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic light system) sets out our plan to manage life with Omicron while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. Find out what you need to do: Life at Orange Face masks at Orange The framework will continue to protect New Zealanders, while also providing more certainty and new opportunities. It minimises the impact and provides protection from COVID-19 through 3 settings — Red, Orange and Green. Minimisation means we are aiming to keep the spread of COVID-19 and hospitilisations at as low a level as possible. Outbreaks will be contained and controlled, and if practical, stamped out. There will likely be some level of cases in the community on an ongoing basis. Protection means that we will protect people from the virus, with vaccination, infection prevention and control, and general public health measures (for example contact tracing, case management and testing). Response will also focus on minimising significant health impacts through treatment and support. We will also protect people’s health, by ensuring we are not letting cases go to the point where the impacts have flow-on effects to impact other health services. The framework is intended to give as much certainty and stability as possible for people and businesses, reducing the need for widespread lockdowns. A high vaccination rate is a key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19. Getting vaccinated reduces the likeliness of getting really sick, going to hospital or passing COVID-19 on to others. There are places where vaccination for workers is required, for example within the border, prisons, and health and disability sectors. Specified limits are based on 1 metre distancing, which means 1 metre square of space for each person (the number of people is limited by the space available). It does not mean people must remain 1 metre apart from others. Capacity limits include everyone in a defined space, excluding workers (paid and unpaid). Under the framework localised lockdowns and protections can be used to control high rates of transmission. The restrictions implemented will consider specific circumstances and the nature of the public health response. They could include: If your business, service, or activity is not captured specifically in the Framework you must follow the public health measures specified in the general settings. COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 1:06 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. There are no restrictions. Learn more about healthy habits We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 1:01 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. At Orange, there is community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. What to do at Orange: Gatherings and visits can go ahead, including visiting friends and whānau, weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange. We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Last updated: 25 May 2022 at 2:54 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Workplaces are open at Orange. Employees should talk to their employers about working at Orange. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Requiring My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate need to be fully vaccinated. Vaccine information for businesses If you are a business owner or manager, think about what steps you can take to protect your staff and customers, if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan for your business. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) If you enter a business as a visitor or customer that has chosen to check My Vaccine Passes, you will need to show them your pass. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Some people must wear a face mask when they are working with members of the public, customers or clients while they are at work — unless they are exempt. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors: Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. COVID-19 support for employers | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information. Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 28 April 2022 at 5:06 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Orange. Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 5:38 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Children can attend early learning services, playgroups and schools at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. Face masks are encouraged, but not required, when inside at school. All ākonga aged 12 and up must wear face masks on school transport. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face masks on site at education services. You do not need to wear a face mask when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We encourage you to indoors wherever it is practical. When to wear a face mask Children and parents/caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: All children and young people can participate in all school-organised teams and groups, regardless of their vaccination status. If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, they will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household: If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate. Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services and schools | temahau.govt.nz (external link) Anyone who is required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students are encouraged to wear face masks in communal areas, and keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Travel at Orange Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information from the Ministry of Education at temahau.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services and schools | temahau.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 5:19 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Orange. Tertiary education facilities can open. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person. My Vaccine Pass is not required, but tertiary providers may have their own requirements. Check with your provider. If you do not meet their vaccine requirements, talk to them about alternative learning options. Anyone who is required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care Student accommodation can open. Check with your provider about their requirements. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Orange Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask COVID-19 vaccinations are free. If you need help with costs to get to a vaccination centre, talk to StudyLink about how they can help you. COVID-19 vaccination travel | studylink.govt.nz (external link) Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Tertiary education providers and students can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary and international sector | temahau.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange. Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Orange. Examples include: You do not need to wear a face mask at an event, either indoors or outdoors. Workers and volunteers at indoor events must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Outdoor community gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration must follow the rules for gatherings. Gatherings at Orange Public facilities can open at Orange. Examples of public facilities include: You must wear a face mask indoors at public facilities, except swimming pools. There are no limits on the number of people who can attend an event or visit a public facility. This applies indoors and outdoors. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 5:30 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Gatherings can go ahead, including weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. All types of gatherings can go ahead. A gathering is a group of people in a defined space, but does not include a group of people at an event. Types of gatherings include: There are no limits on the number of people who can attend an indoor or outdoor gathering. Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Orange You can serve food and drink at your gathering. People at the gathering do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice. Hospitality at Orange You do not need to wear a face mask when attending a gathering, but it is encouraged. Workers and volunteers at gatherings must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Performers and formal speakers do not need to wear a face mask when performing or speaking. They should wear face masks when not performing or speaking. When to wear a face mask Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Gatherings at marae can go ahead. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB] All faith-based services can go ahead. For example, services at a place of worship, or a prayer group in an individual's home. Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 246 KB] Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Orange. Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737. It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz: COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 5:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. Food and drink services that only offer takeaway, like coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Shopping and services at Orange You do not need to wear a face mask at indoor or outdoor hospitality venues. You are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. Public-facing workers at indoor hospitality venues must wear a medical grade face mask. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 5:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can move house at Orange. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Travel advice There is no limit to how many people can attend open homes and property inspections. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) Travel advice You do not need to wear a face mask when moving, buying or selling your home. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities during COVID-19 | rea.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 12:40 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. You can always access these places at Orange: Shops, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can open. Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter the shop. You must wear a face mask when you are visiting a shop indoors. You can use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. You can visit a close-proximity business at Orange. There is no limit to how many people can be present. Examples are: You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at any traffic light setting. Examples of trades and home services are: While they are inside your house it is recommended you: Tradespeople do not need to wear a face mask when inside people’s homes. Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can remove your face mask to eat or drink. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Advice for health providers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 5:35 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange. Indoor and outdoor sport events can go ahead at Orange. This includes community and professional sport. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open. This includes gyms, dance studios, ice skating rinks, playgrounds and outdoor exercise classes. There are no capacity limits indoors or outdoors. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Orange If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Orange You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors, at a sporting or recreation event, when you are exercising, or playing sport. When face masks do not need to be worn At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link) Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 29 April 2022 at 1:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. This information is for domestic travel. You must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask at Orange If you are self-isolating, you can only leave your home for a few reasons. If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you should stay home. Accommodation can open at Orange. There are no capacity limits. This includes: If you are holding an event or a gathering at an accommodation facility, follow the relevant advice: Events at Orange Gatherings at Orange If the accommodation service contains a hospitality venue, they need to follow advice for hospitality services. Hospitality at Orange You do not need to wear a face mask at accommodation facilities, but you are encouraged to wear one in public indoor settings. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Transport operators can find more information: Advice for transport operators about COVID-19 Protection Framework | transport.govt.nz (external link) Advice for transport, freight and logistics | business.govt.nz (external link) Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 5:15 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), household bubbles do not exist. Examples include: Follow the advice for gatherings. Gatherings at Orange You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for health professionals | health.govt.nz (external link) There are currently no face-to-face visits allowed for private and legal visitors. When visits start again, all private visitors are required to be fully vaccinated. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link)  Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 5:32 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. What to do at Red: Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with some requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red. We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Last updated: 5 April 2022 at 12:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. My Vaccine Pass requirements have been removed, but businesses can choose to continue to follow them. If you enter a business that is still following the requirements as a visitor or customer, you may be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass, either by looking at it, or scanning it with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Children under 12 years and 3 months can enter businesses without a My Vaccine Pass. Workplaces can open at Red. To slow the spread of the disease, we also encourage those who can, to work from home. Working from home is not practical for everyone, but if it is a practical option for you, we are encouraging you to do so. Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate must be vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccinations and work If you are a business owner or manager, you should have a plan in place to protect your workers and customers if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) During the Omicron response, workers who at registered critical services who are a Household Contact may continue to work. They must be fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. More information about critical workers We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: You are not required to wear a face mask when visiting a voting place to vote in a general election. This applies to people going to cast their vote, and to anyone supporting or assisting them. Face masks at work Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. COVID-19 support for employers | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information. Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 12:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Red. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 10:55 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Red. Staff and students in years 4 to 13 must wear face masks indoors at school. All parents/caregivers and visitors must wear a face mask indoors. Mask guidance | temahau.govt.nz (external link) All parents/caregivers and other visitors are encouraged to maintain 1-metre distancing from other adults while indoors, for example to settle your child or to view a service. Certified playgroups can open. All parents/caregivers and other visitors are required to wear face masks indoors. Face masks must be an actual mask, secured with ear loops or a head loop. Staff and volunteers must wear medical-grade face masks when indoors. Types of mask  All licensed early learning services and kōhanga reo can open. Parents/caregivers who can supervise their children at home are encouraged to do so. This does not prevent parent-led services from opening. If required, services will be able to make choices about their capacity to manage attendance. All parents/caregivers and other visitors are required to wear face masks indoors. Face masks must be an actual mask, secured with ear loops or a head loop. Staff and volunteers do not have to wear a face mask, but they can if they want to. Children attending early learning services do not have to wear face masks on early learning service transport. This includes buses or vans chartered or used by early learning services to carry children, students and staff. Types of mask  Schools and kura can open. All ākonga (students) aged 8 years or over, or in Year 4 or up, must wear face masks at schools and kura when: Ākonga do not need to wear a face mask when outdoors. Face masks for students must be an actual mask, secured with ear loops or a head loop. Staff and teachers must wear medical grade face masks when teaching and supporting children in Years 4 and up. Wearing a face mask Mask guidance | temahau.govt.nz (external link) Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students are encouraged to keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Travel at Red Children and parents/caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: All children and young people can participate in all school-organised teams and groups, regardless of their vaccination status. If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, they will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household: If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate. Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services and schools | temahau.govt.nz (external link) Anyone who is required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information from the Ministry of Education at temahau.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services and schools | temahau.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 10:58 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person when tertiary sites are open. My Vaccine Pass is not required, but tertiary providers may have their own requirements. Check with your provider. If you do not meet their vaccine requirements, talk to them about alternative learning options. Capacity is based on 1-metre distancing. Physical distancing is not required, though tertiary providers may impose their own distancing requirements. Staff, students and visitors must wear a face mask indoors in public areas at tertiary education facilities, and indoors during teaching and learning activities — unless you have an exemption. Face masks must also be worn indoors when accessing services such as student health, pharmacies and other retailers on-site. When to wear a face mask Anyone who is required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care Student accommodation can open. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass for residents and staff. Check with your provider about their requirements. Accommodation at Red Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Tertiary education providers and students can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary and international sector | temahau.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Red. Events can go ahead at Red. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:14 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Events can go ahead at Red. Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Red. Examples are: There can be up to 200 people in a defined space at the venue at any time, based on 1-metre physical distancing. This includes children, but not workers. Defined spaces at Red  Generally, when food and drink is being served, you must remain seated and separated . You can move around when you are not being served or eating. In cinemas, theatres and stadiums, you can buy food and drink from the counter, but you must be seated when you consume it. You must wear a face mask at an indoor event. You do not need to wear a face mask if the event is outdoors. Event workers and volunteers must wear a face mask at indoor events. They do not need to wear face masks at outdoor events. Performers and entertainers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they can keep 2 metre physical distance from the audience at all times. When to wear a face mask Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:15 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions. Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Examples of public facilities include: Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass at the facilities. Check before you go. Face masks must be worn at indoor public facilities. Maintain 1-metre physical distancing from others wherever possible. Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Public facilities are responsible for determining capacity limits of each facility, based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing.   Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:17 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with some restrictions. You can have up to 200 people at an indoor gathering at Red. Outdoor gatherings have no limit. You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with indoor gatherings limited to 200 people. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Red. Information on what an indoor and outdoor defined space is, and how it applies to face masks and capacity limits. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:32 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Indoor spaces are generally considered to be venues that: Examples include many gyms, nightclubs, restaurants and halls. Indoor space is a single defined space if there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces. It does not matter if there is shared air between the spaces. Indoor defined spaces can include temporary structures, like marquees, that are enclosed by temporary walls on multiple sides or plastic domes. Outdoor spaces are generally considered to be places that have good ventilation, with a decent amount of free flowing, fresh air coming into the space. For example, this could be because the venue: An outdoor space is a single defined space if: Outdoor defined spaces can include: Some venues are made up of indoor and outdoor spaces. The activity that occurs in these indoor spaces should determine what capacity limit applies to the indoor space — the rule follows the activity. This means that: If there is more than 1 space on the premises, people using the space (other than workers), cannot mix with other people using, entering, or leaving the premises. Workers can move between gatherings held in different defined spaces. Every venue is different, so it is up to the venue owner or gathering organiser to put measures in place to stop groups of people mixing within each defined space. To ensure groups do not mix, consider: Guidance on capacity limits in indoor and outdoor spaces [PDF, 84 KB] You do not need to wear a face mask at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space. This means that the area can be closed off to the public and is used only by people attending your event or gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering. All workers must wear a face mask at indoor gatherings unless they are exempt. Some venues and facilities may have capacity limits based on their defined space. Capacity limits are based on the number of people who could be in the defined space if everyone stands 1 metre apart, and are limited to a maximum of 200 people. Smaller spaces may need to have fewer than 200 people. When you are working out the maximum number of people allowed in each defined space, do not include workers. More information about gathering limits at Red: Last updated: 21 May 2022 at 11:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. A gathering is a group of people who are intermingling. Most faith-based services are gatherings. Examples of faith-based gatherings that can go ahead at Red include: Weddings at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Red Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 246 KB] Indoor faith-based gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor faith-based gatherings have no limit.  Face mask requirements for people at the gathering who are not working will depend on where and how the gathering is held: Where face masks are required, you can remove them to eat and drink. Face masks must not be removed while singing. If 2 metres away from others, performers and workers presenting to an audience can remove their face masks. All workers (paid or unpaid) at faith-based gatherings must wear a face mask throughout the gathering. You can serve food and drink at your faith-based gathering, but people should not share drinks, cups, plates, cutlery or other items. People do not need to sit down to eat or drink, unless your gathering is at a hospitality venue. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice.  Hospitality at Red Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:26 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Red.  There can be up to 200 people in a single defined space at an indoor venue at any time. The limit includes children under 12, whānau pani and ringawera. There is no limit to how many people can be at an outdoor venue. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga, burial or viewing. You can serve food and drink. Defined spaces at Red A marae can have multiple groups of 200 people coming through to attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). Up to 200 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: You do not need to wear a face mask if the funeral or tangihanga has exclusive use of a venue. We encourage you to wear a face mask in shared areas — if there are other activities happening at the venue at the same time. Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Workers hosting or officiating the service do not need to wear a face mask when speaking and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. When you need to wear a face mask There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with indoor gatherings limited to 200 people. At Whero, gatherings at marae can go ahead. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. There can be up to 200 people in a single defined space at the marae at a time. This number includes tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months. Defined spaces at Red Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend if the gathering is outdoors. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Workers and volunteers at a marae must wear a face mask when indoors. If you cannot wear a face mask, for example for medical reasons, you can get an exemption card. Manuhiri (visitors to the marae) do not need to wear a face mask if their gathering is outdoors, or if the gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix. Manuhiri must wear a face mask if the defined space is indoors and shared with other groups or members of the public. Face masks can be removed to eat or drink. They can also be removed by kaikōrero if they can keep 2 metres away from their audience at all times. When you need to wear a face mask You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti. Marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside. People serving or handling kai must wear a face mask. Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB] Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can have up to 200 people at an indoor gathering at Red. Outdoor gatherings have no limit. Gatherings can go ahead at Red. A gathering is a group of people in a defined space, but does not include a group of people at an event. Types of gatherings include: Find more information: Faith-based gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red Defined spaces at Red You can serve food and drink at your gathering. People at the gathering do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice.  Hospitality at Red You must wear a face mask at an indoor gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering, or at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. This means that you do not need to wear a face mask at most weddings, funerals or tangihanga, or faith-based gatherings. Everyone working at the gathering must wear a face mask — unless they are exempt. Performers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They should wear face masks when not performing. When to wear a face mask Defined spaces at Red You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. Advice for faith-based gatherings Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:29 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, healthcare facilities and prisons at Red. Household bubbles do not exist under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights). You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Examples include: You and your guests do not need to wear face masks. Learn more about private gatherings at Red You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for health professionals | health.govt.nz (external link) There are currently no face-to-face visits allowed for private and legal visitors. When visits start again, all private visitors are required to be fully vaccinated. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link)  You do not need to wear a face mask if you are visiting friends and whānau at their home, or hosting a gathering for them at your own home. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility, hospital or healthcare facility. Learn more about when you need to wear a face mask Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:24 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. You and your guests do not need to wear a face mask if your ceremony is outdoors, or if you have exclusive use of an indoor defined space for your wedding or civil union ceremony — for example,if you have hired a lodge, hall or vineyard. This includes weddings held at private homes. You and your guests must wear a face mask if you do not have exclusive use of the defined space where the wedding is taking place — for example, if members of the public also have access to it. You can take your face mask off to eat and drink. Workers at the wedding or civil union ceremony must wear a face mask, unless they are exempt. Performers, such as a band, do not need to wear a face mask when performing if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They must wear face masks when not performing. When you need to wear a face mask Defined spaces at Red Everyone can move around, dance and mingle. Singing and other types of performance are also allowed. You and your guests do not need to physically distance. You can serve food and drink. If you have exclusively hired a venue for your wedding or civil union ceremony, people do not need to sit down to eat or drink.  Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:26 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. There can be up to 200 people indoors, including children. The limit does not include workers. There is no limit for outdoor venues . Food and drink service guidelines | Business.govt.nz (external link) Food courts do not need to follow the seated and separated rules or the capacity limits unless they are serving alcohol. Otherwise, food courts should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Red Wear a face mask Food and beverage businesses that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can open. Takeaway services and food courts should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Red Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 3 June 2022 at 10:56 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can move house at Red. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings for any reason, including to move house. Travel advice  Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) Properties can have up to 200 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space at any time. It is the responsibility of the property owner or real estate agent to comply with capacity limits. Property owners and real estate agents should agree any face mask requirements for open homes. Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | rea.govt.nz (external link) Defined spaces at Red  Property owners and real estate agents should agree any face mask requirements for open homes. Wear a face mask Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities during COVID-19 | rea.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 20 May 2022 at 4:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Red. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:06 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. You can access these places and services: You can use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: You must wear a face mask when accessing services for basic needs. Wear a face mask Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Health providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz. Advice for health providers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz (external link) Aged care providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz COVID-19: Aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)  Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:08 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses such as hairdressers can open at Red with restrictions. Shops, including outdoor markets, banks, food courts and takeaway-only businesses, can open at Red. The number of people allowed at a retail outlet depends on how large the premises is. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Defined spaces and capacity limits | business.govt.nz (external link) Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this does not change how many people can be there. If they do, they can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the shop. You will always be able to access basic needs like food. Supermarkets and dairies are not allowed to stop you from shopping there based on your vaccination status. Access to basic needs at Red  Examples of close-proximity businesses include hairdressers and beauty salons. You should keep 1 metre apart from other customers and workers, except when close contact is required to provide the service. Businesses may have additional restrictions under Red, for example, some hairdressers may choose to not provide refreshments. Check with the business before you go. These rules also apply to people providing close-proximity services in people’s homes — for example, mobile hairdressers. You must wear a face mask when visiting shops, indoor markets, banks, takeaway-only businesses and close-proximity businesses. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can remove your face mask to eat or drink. Workers at close-proximity businesses must wear face masks. At a close-proximity business you may be able to remove your face mask if you could not receive the service if you left it on. An example is having a beard trim. Check with the staff before you take your face mask off. Wear a face mask Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Retailers can find more information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) Close-proximity businesses can find more  information at business.govt.nz. Guidelines for close-proximity services | business.govt.nz (external link)  Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:10 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red. Examples of trades and home services are: While they are inside your house it is strongly recommended you: Tradespeople must wear a face mask when inside people’s homes. Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you: If you have COVID-19 Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:13 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red. You can attend sports events and play sport at Red. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open at Red with restrictions. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:37 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Red with restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. Gyms and indoor recreation facilities, such as dance studios, yoga studios, health clubs, bowling alleys and ice skating rinks, can open. My Vaccine Pass requirements have been removed, but businesses can choose to follow them and ask to see your My Vaccine Pass.  Defined spaces at Red  Public recreation facilities will follow the guidelines for public facilities. Public facilities at Red Public swimming pools can open. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Red Indoor and outdoor swimming pools at private facilities can open. This includes saunas and steam rooms. Learn to swim classes can continue.  You do not need to wear a face mask at a swimming pool. Defined spaces at Red Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead at Red. Parks, playgrounds, sports grounds and other outdoor recreation facilities such as skate parks can open to everyone. Private clubs such as golf or tennis clubs that are not members-only indoor exercise facilities, can choose to restrict their facilities to vaccinated people only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. Physical distancing is encouraged. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an outdoor recreation facility, follow the rules for: You can travel for recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. Travel at Red Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters   Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:34 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can attend sports events and play sport at Red. Outdoor community sport, like organised social touch rugby, can go ahead at Red. There is no capacity limit for outdoor venues. Spectators should remain 2 metres apart from players. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Red Organised indoor sport, for example at a stadium or indoor arena, can go ahead at Red. There can be up to 200 people based on 1-metre distancing , in a defined space at the venue at any time. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: Defined spaces at Red The limit does not include staff at the venue. Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places when you must wear a face mask. We recommend you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. When to wear a face mask Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:35 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. You can travel around New Zealand at Red. Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:22 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions. My Vaccine Pass requirements have been removed, but accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation. This includes: It does not include private residences. If you are holding an event or a gathering at accommodation, follow the relevant advice: Accommodation services can provide food and drink. Customer-facing food and beverage services, other than room service, must follow the food and beverage rules. Hospitality at Red You must wear a face mask if you are indoors at a food and drink business attached to an accommodation provider. You can take your face mask off when seated and to eat and drink. We encourage you to wear a face mask in communal areas. Wear a face mask Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:40 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can travel around New Zealand at Red. There are no boundaries under the traffic lights. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, or at bus stops or train stations.  Some transport providers may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Free rapid antigen tests (RATs) are available at participating community pharmacies. The tests are available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: More information about free rapid antigen testing You must wear a face mask: If you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above, you must wear a face mask on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport (school buses). When you must wear a face mask If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling Find out about requirements for travelling to, transiting, and departing New Zealand. International travel Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:41 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Resources for businesses to help them operate safely at each of the traffic light settings. Businesses and workplaces no longer need to display a QR code poster, but can choose to do so. Get your QR code poster (external link) Manage and reprint your QR code posters (external link) More information about NZ COVID Tracer QR codes | health.govt.nz (external link)   Businesses can find advice on operating safely under each of the traffic light settings at business.govt.nz. COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Businesses can choose whether to require customers to have My Vaccine Passes as a condition of entry. If businesses choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, they must sight or verify customers' passes. Businesses can use the free NZ Pass Verifier app to check passes faster and easier. More information on NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) Use our COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what support may be available for you and your employees. COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for businesses | business.govt.nz (external link) Download and print posters to help keep your workplace safe.  Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 3:14 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Find out what you must do if you have COVID-19 Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Search or browse for your local traffic light setting. What you need to do under each traffic light setting:  Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner uses the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures to help you plan your journey. Use Journey Planner (external link) Last updated: 12 May 2022 at 8:10 am Languages and resources Contact and support