COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Although requirements have been removed, we recommend you isolate for 5 days and wear a mask when visiting healthcare facilities. Some facilities may still ask you to wear a face mask. Please respect their policies to protect those at higher risk. What you need to know Additional COVID-19 booster doses continue to be available for those who are eligible. Providing antiviral medicine for COVID-19 to eligible people will become the key focus of primary and community pharmacy care from 1 October. Effective from 12:01am Tuesday 15 August, 7 day mandatory isolation, wearing of face masks for visitors to healthcare facilities removed. If you test positive or negative, you should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT). If you are at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19, you can get COVID-19 antivirals. Find COVID-19 information in different languages. Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Although requirements have been removed, we recommend you isolate for 5 days and wear a mask when visiting healthcare facilities. Some facilities may still ask you to wear a face mask. Please respect their policies to protect those at higher risk. What you need to know Additional COVID-19 booster doses continue to be available for those who are eligible. Providing antiviral medicine for COVID-19 to eligible people will become the key focus of primary and community pharmacy care from 1 October. Effective from 12:01am Tuesday 15 August, 7 day mandatory isolation, wearing of face masks for visitors to healthcare facilities removed. If you test positive or negative, you should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT). If you are at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19, you can get COVID-19 antivirals. Find COVID-19 information in different languages. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Find information about the history of the COVID-19 Alert System, Independent Advisory Groups, legislation and key documents. New Zealand’s COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) has ended. With case numbers low, most COVID-19 rules were removed on 13 September 2022. About the current phase To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response set up 2 independent advisory groups. There is also a community panel to represent diverse views. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. The COVID-19 Protection Framework ran from December 2021 to September 2022. It set out rules for different traffic light settings to manage life with Omicron. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Unite against COVID-19 helps New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community.  At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2.  The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm.  Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights)  A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: Last updated: 29 June 2022 at 2:06 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 Protection Framework replaced Alert Levels in December 2021 and ended in mid-September 2022. It had 3 traffic light settings of Red, Orange and Green. The framework aimed to: It also aimed to give people and businesses more stability. At all traffic light settings, essential services continued to operate. This included supermarkets, health services, emergency services, goods transport, and utilities such as power and water supplies. A high vaccination rate remains a key tool to protect people and minimise the spread of COVID-19. Getting vaccinated means you are less likely to get extremely sick or infect other people. Some workplaces may require staff to be vaccinated. Vaccine mandates for government workers ended during 2022. Wearing face masks remains a way to protect ourselves and others. At Red and Orange traffic light settings, there were some places people had to wear face masks, such as on public transport and in supermarkets. At Red, capacity limits applied in some indoor settings. Limits were based on 1-metre distancing, which meant 1 metre square of space for each person, up to the maximum capacity limit. It did not mean everyone had to stay 1 metre apart. Capacity limits did not include workers (paid and unpaid). If an area had very high infection rates, extra restrictions such as local lockdowns or other protective steps may have been used. Examples of protective steps included: COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] The COVID-19 Alert Level System ends. History of the Alert System At 11:59pm New Zealand moves to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, or traffic light system. Northland, Auckland, Taupo, Rotorua Lakes, Kawerau, Whakatane, Ōpōtiki, Gisborne, Wairoa, Rangitikei, Whanganui, and Ruapehu districts move to Red. The rest of the North Island, and the South Island, move to Orange. Watch 1 December media conference Auckland boundary lifts at 11:59pm. People travelling out of Auckland need to be vaccinated or have proof of a negative test. First confirmed Omicron border case. The international traveller tests positive soon after arriving on 10 December. Genome sequencing then detects Omicron. Watch 16 December media conference Auckland, Taupo, Rotorua Lakes, Kawerau, Whakatane, Ōpōtiki, Gisborne, Wairoa, Rangitikei, Whanganui, and Ruapehu districts move to Orange at 11:59pm. Northland remains at Red. Auckland boundary-crossing rules end. People travelling out of Auckland no longer need proof of vaccination or a negative test. Northland moves to Orange at 11:59pm. First confirmed Omicron community cases. All New Zealand moves to Red at 11:59pm. Watch 23 January media conference The Government introduces Omicron phases, with different approaches to testing and isolation as case numbers grow. Government announces 3-phase public health response to Omicron Face mask rules change for Red at 11:59pm. Increased mask use to prepare for Omicron Close Contact exemption scheme begins for workers in key sectors. All New Zealand moves to Phase 2 of the Omicron response at 11:59pm. Watch 16 February media conference All New Zealand moves to Phase 3 of the Omicron response at 11:59pm. Watch 24 February media conference Isolation period drops from 10 to 7 days at 11:59pm. Changes to traffic light settings at 11:59pm include: Vaccine passes are no longer needed in any traffic setting from 11:59pm. Most vaccine mandates end for government workers. All New Zealand remains at Red. Watch 4 April media conference All New Zealand moves to Orange at 11:59pm. Watch 13 April media conference Vaccine mandates end for border and corrections workers. Vaccine mandates end for some workers in the Defence Force, Fire and Emergency, and Police. The COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) ends at 11:59pm. The last government vaccine mandates — for health and disability workers — ends at 11:59pm. Last updated: 10 October 2022 at 11:26 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 independent advisory groups. There is also a community panel to represent diverse views. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by a diverse range of perspectives, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet set up the Community Panel. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The group provides advice to the Minister for COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. This can include: The aim is to give the Minister assurance that learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] Documents from COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group are proactively released to the public. Proactive releases One of the recommendations from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group's review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak was for all recommendations from that review and from previous reports to be actively monitored, with regular progress reports. Read the progress reports Last updated: 12 July 2022 Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The panel provides insights across the COVID-19 system direct from communities. Panel members bring lived experiences and deep community ties to: They represent communities such as rural, youth/aged, disabled, LGBTQ+, Māori, Pacific and other ethnic groups. Their expertise helps shape the medium- and long-term COVID-19 strategy. Members were chosen in consultation with other government agencies to ensure strong cross-agency collaboration. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] When information is proactively released about the Community Panel, it will be available on this page. Last updated: 1 July 2022 at 4:49 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The group provides independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 449 KB] Documents from Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group are proactively released to the public. View proactive releases Last updated: 1 September 2022 at 11:28 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. You can read the 'Aotearoa New Zealand Strategic Framework for Managing COVID-19' on the Ministry of Health website. Aotearoa New Zealand Strategic Framework for Managing COVID-19 — Ministry of Health (external link) The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 Legislation and Orders — Ministry of Health (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Last updated: 25 October 2023 at 10:32 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. How Unite Against COVID-19's brand has evolved to support Aotearoa's journey and response to COVID-19. Unite Against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the pandemic. For the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), our brand evolved to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey based on the concept of "He waka eke noa — we are all in this together." COVID-19 was a storm that had been raging across the world and eventually made its way to Aotearoa. This pūrorohū threatened our lifestyle, businesses and our very lives. We knew the only way we could survive was to shelter and wait for it to pass. So, we dropped anchor and took shelter, and focused on keeping people safe. Each time it threatened us we would do this and wait for it to pass. But, over time it has become apparent to us all that our weather has changed and this storm is now part of our new reality. Our strength has always been in our sail. Our raranga is made strong by the threads working together. Throughout the pandemic we have added new threads to our raranga that have further strengthened our sail, so we can now continue our journey. We can seek out new horizons with the confidence of knowing that if we hit some bad weather again, our navigation skills and the strength of our sail will carry us through to calmer waters. Working collaboratively with Māori designers and communication experts, our sail motif reflects the journey we are on and is now woven through our designs and advertising. From this, a distinctive Aotearoa feel flows through our visual elements. Our colour palette is influenced by the colours of the kererū . The taonga pūoro you hear woven into the sting at the start of our audio advertisements represent the contemporary sounds of Aotearoa. These are New Zealand's sounds and voices. Taonga pūoro are considered an important medicine in healing. They are used as rongoā (medicine) for both mental health and physical ailments. Our taonga pūoro is recorded by musician Reti Hedley, Ngā Puhi, Ngāti Tūwharetoa. Through 2020 and 2021, our yellow stripes and Alert Level campaign helped Aotearoa shelter from the stormy weather, while reassuring New Zealanders we could get through together. Aotearoa is still navigating its journey with COVID-19, but together we can continue to trust in the strength of our sail. Last updated: 5 October 2022 at 3:42 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. Make a direct request for official information Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC) COVID-19 proactive releases will no longer be published on the Unite against COVID-19 website. You can find these proactive releases on the DPMC website. Publications | DPMC (external link) Proactive releases currently on this website will remain. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. This includes papers, minutes, Official Information Act requests (OIAs) and key advice. These documents are proactively released in keeping with the Official Information Act 1982. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 12:44 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Alert Level Orders are published on the New Zealand Legislation website | New Zealand Legislation (external link) Last updated: 8 December 2022 at 2:38 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 25 July 2022 at 10:55 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand.  Reports tracking the progress made on recommendations to improve New Zealand’s COVID-19 response system. See progress reports Last updated: 18 October 2022 at 2:56 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. One of the recommendations from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group's review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak was for all recommendations from that review and from previous reports to be actively monitored, with regular progress reports. The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group undertook a stocktake of reviews and coordinated a system view of the recommendations. The COVID-19 Group monitors progress against recommended improvements. These progress reports intend to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 response system learns and adapts over time.     Recommendations have been grouped into 10 themes to report on the system trends: Last updated: 12 July 2022 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:30 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:35 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:37 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 22 June 2022 at 4:01 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:42 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 18 October 2022 at 5:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:47 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Our website privacy statement, terms of use, contact details if you would like advice or have feedback, and how to access archives of our website. How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. Last updated: 23 July 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Find contact information for Unite against COVID-19 Communications, Te Whatu Ora Health New Zealand. I am looking for... For COVID-19 health advice call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week:   You must enable JavaScript to submit this form Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. If you are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to make a call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in alternate formats, including: Alternate formats Many government agencies have language support available if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages. Translations You can contact Unite against COVID-19 Communications by using our online form above or by sending us a letter. If you are sending us feedback about our website, Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage you have feedback about. Postal address: Unite against COVID-19 Communications Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand PO Box 793 Wellington New Zealand 6140 Follow Unite against COVID-19 and Te Whatu Ora Health — New Zealand on social media. Social media Last updated: 13 April 2023 at 5:31 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. This website is operated by COVID-19 Communications, a business unit of Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. You may browse and access information contained within this website — including completing user research tasks, like filling in a survey — without providing any personal information. If you provide information (including personal information) to us — for example, through the general enquiry form — we will only use that information to: We will keep any such information secure. We may share it with third parties to the extent necessary for the services they provide to us related to the purposes of our ICT systems and website. We have software to track which pages are visited. This helps us identify the most popular areas of our website. The information is aggregated, and we cannot identify individual visitors. Learn more about how we use statistical information You have the right to ask for a copy of any personal information we hold about you, and to ask for it to be corrected if you think it is wrong. If you would like to ask for a copy of your information or to have it corrected, or you have any concerns about the personal information that we hold, please write to: Te Whatu Ora PO Box 793 Wellington 6140 or send an email to info@health.govt.nz We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) Last updated: 9 December 2022 at 3:16 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Welcome to Covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by COVID-19 Communications, a business unit of Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC-BY-NC Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/ (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government Logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photograph, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand may remove access to the content at any time. We updated this 'Copyright and attribution' section on 20 January 2022. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website Last updated: 24 November 2022 at 12:57 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) Last updated: 6 October 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. You might be interested in Regardless of how many boosters you have had, you can get an additional booster now if you are: Find out more about boosters  Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity levels high. Booster doses use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. All vaccination mandates have ended. For health and safety, some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated against COVID-19.      Last updated: 15 May 2023 at 1:06 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity levels high. Booster doses use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. Regardless of how many boosters you have had, you can get an additional booster now if you are: Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course (this is usually 2 doses) of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. For boosters, we use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. This is an updated vaccine targeting Omicron. COVID-19 vaccines are free. The bivalent vaccine produces an immune response against the original virus and Omicron variants. Specifically the BA.4 and BA.5 subvariants. Current evidence indicates the bivalent vaccine is more effective against Omicron subvariants than earlier vaccines. If you do not want the bivalent vaccine, you can ask for the original Pfizer vaccine when you arrive for your vaccination. If you are 30 years of age and over, you can have a booster regardless of the number of boosters you have already had. You can have a booster if: Boosters are especially recommended for: Healthy people aged 16 to 29 can have a 1 booster dose. To get a booster: Some people aged 16 to 29 can have an additional booster dose. This includes:  Healthy children under 16 years old are not eligible for boosters. Young people aged 12 to 15 who have a medical condition that increases the risk of severe illness from COVID-19 can get a booster dose on prescription. Talk to your doctor, nurse, or healthcare provider about whether this is recommended and how to get a prescription. Children under the age of 12 cannot get a booster. You can talk to your doctor, nurse or healthcare provider about your child's specific circumstances. Children have a good immune response and are much less likely to have a severe illness and need to go to hospital if they get COVID-19. You can check the date of your last vaccination in My Covid Record. Visit My Covid Record (external link) To find out over the phone, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline. You can call between 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 28 29 26 It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link)  Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 6pm, Monday to Friday. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. COVID-19 vaccinations, no appointment required | Healthpoint (external link) When you get a booster it is added to My Covid Record. You can then download another International Travel Vaccination Certificate or vaccination record. Visit My Covid Record (external link) Last updated: 15 May 2023 at 12:35 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines. Children aged 6 months to 4 years who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about eligibility, effectiveness, and providing consent. Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. The Novavax COVID-19 vaccine is also available for people aged 12 and over. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 1:47 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 vaccine protects your child, your whānau and your community. It is free and available now for everyone aged 5 and over.    COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. COVID-19 symptoms If children and young people who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19.  Explain that it might hurt for a short time, just like their other childhood immunisations. Tell them there will be a small needle and that they will feel a sharp scratch or sting briefly but then it will be over. They may have a sore arm, fever, headache or feel tired afterwards. It is important to tell them why they are getting vaccinated. Let them know the vaccine will protect them against COVID-19, and protect their family, their grandparents, their community, and other kids at school who may be more at risk from COVID-19 if they catch it. Make sure they know they will need 2 doses. Give them time to ask the vaccinator questions if they have them. Have some games or toys ready so you can distract them during their vaccination and entertain them while you wait for 15 minutes afterwards. Arrange a fun activity or treat to look forward to after the appointment. Tell them that they might feel a bit unwell or a day or two, and arrange to spend some extra time with them if you can. What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB]    There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. You can choose the child vaccine (5 to 11) or adult vaccine (12+) from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map | Book My Vaccine (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites will be offering vaccinations to 5 to 11-year-olds. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you If you would like to talk through any questions or worries, you can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link) Information for Pacific Peoples | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)  Last updated: 8 February 2023 at 3:53 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Answering your questions Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. In the clinical trials it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against Omicron, a booster is likely offer greater protection by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get a free booster now.    COVID-19 vaccines needed to be rolled out quickly, but that does not mean safety was compromised. The Pfizer vaccine we are using in New Zealand is held to the same high safety standards as any other medicine. COVID-19 vaccines are the most well-studied vaccines ever made. More than 50% of the world's population have had a COVID-19 vaccine. Nearly 4 million people in Aotearoa have had their second Pfizer vaccine, and over 2.5 million people have had a booster. This means we have lots of data to show the Pfizer vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety.   You might feel nervous about getting the vaccine, which is normal. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm, and it will be over very fast. You will then need to stay for at least 15 minutes so we can make sure you do not have an immediate reaction.    If you have another question, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 2:01 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using for primary doses in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. For children aged 6 months to 4 years, the vaccine is a 3-dose course. It is recommended the second dose is given 3 weeks after the first. Followed by a third dose given at least 8 weeks after the second dose. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) The Pfizer BA.4/5 COVID-19 bivalent vaccine is the main COVID-19 vaccine we use for booster doses. The Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine is an updated version of the original vaccine and has 2 strains of the virus. This is compared to 1 strain of the original vaccine that we use for primary doses. The bivalent vaccine contains equal parts of mRNA, and produces an immune response, for the original strain of COVID-19 and the Omicron variant. Specifically, the Omicron subvariants BA.4 and BA.5. A primary course of the COVID-19 vaccine will use the original vaccine. Boosters will use the updated bivalent vaccine, as Medsafe has only granted provisional approval for its use as a booster. The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 12 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand for people aged 18 and over. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 30 August 2023 at 4:50 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB]    Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 2:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. More information on immunisation and pregnancy | immunise.health.nz There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. We recommend pregnant people who are eligible get the bivalent booster at any stage of pregnancy or during breastfeeding. It will need to be at least 6 months since you had a COVID-19 vaccine or a positive COVID-19 test. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster  If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) Covid 19 vaccines, pregnancy and breastfeeding [PDF, 362 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Last updated: 16 June 2023 at 1:36 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years can get the paediatric Pfizer vaccine if they are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. It is a 3-dose course. The second dose should be 3 weeks after the first dose, followed by a third dose given at least 8 weeks after the second dose. Eligible children include those who are severely immunocompromised, or who have complex or multiple health conditions. Health conditions include: You can find more detailed information on the eligibility criteria on the Starship website: Risk factors for COVID-19 in children | Starship (external link) Children aged 6 months to 4 years who do not have these health conditions have a very low likelihood of severe illness from COVID-19. They are not eligible for the vaccine. If you are unsure if your child is eligible, contact your healthcare provider. Before your child's vaccination appointment: If they are a little nervous, they are welcome to take something to the appointment that will distract them, like a soft toy, phone or some music. Not every vaccination site stocks the vaccines for the 6-month to 4-year age group, but there are lots of ways to find a site convenient for you. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. Choose the 6 months to 4 years age band from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map | Book My Vaccine (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Call: 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. You can also make whānau group bookings when you call. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites offer vaccinations to young children. Your local doctor or pharmacy may be able to vaccinate your child. There may also be walk-in or drive-through centres. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you | Healthpoint (external link) If you would like to talk through any questions or worries, you can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team can chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. Last updated: 9 February 2023 at 1:01 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. Children and young people with disabilities can get vaccinated at some accessible sites with their whānau. Learn more about vaccinations for children Young children aged 6 months to 4 years who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 can get a vaccination. Learn more about vaccinations for young children Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course (this is usually 2 doses) of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. For boosters, we use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. This is an updated vaccine targeting Omicron. Learn more about booster doses If you are worried about getting the vaccine, you can talk to a trained advisor in the Healthline disability team. The team is made up of people who have experience of a disability themselves, or who have worked with the disabled community. They will support you, your whānau or someone you care for and answer any questions you may have about: The disability team is available Monday to Friday, from 8am to 8pm.  If you have decided you want to get the vaccine, it is easy to get vaccinated. You can get your vaccination at: You can also talk to, text or email a trained advisor to discuss whether a home vaccination is right for you. Some vaccination centres are fully accessible. Your family, whānau and support workers are also welcome to get their vaccinations with you. Map of vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand | karawhiua.nz (external link) You can book your vaccination by: The disability team can also help you book an appointment for your tamariki at an accessible site.  You can take a support person with you when you get your vaccination. This can be a carer, or someone else you trust. When you get to the vaccination site, you will need to sign in. If you need an NZSL interpreter or information in an accessible format, please ask. When it is your time to get vaccinated, the staff will ask you whether it is okay to give you the vaccine. If you say yes, this is called consent. If you cannot give consent, someone who is allowed to make decisions for you can give consent for you. The vaccinator may also ask you questions about how you are feeling, and what medication you take. It is normal to feel scared or worried. Ask the vaccinator if you have any questions. You will need to wait for 15 minutes after your vaccination. If this is hard for you, ask if you can wait somewhere else. You can choose to get the vaccine. You can say yes or no, or ask for help making your decision. For disabled people or people with an impairment, the journey to get vaccinated may look a little different. For people with a disability or impairment: If you are supporting someone with a disability to make a decision, it can also help to read our advice on conversations about vaccination: How to talk to friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine Last updated: 31 March 2023 at 11:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. For boosters, we use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. This is an updated vaccine targeting Omicron. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get another booster, regardless of how many boosters you have had. Get your vaccine booster If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. Last updated: 27 June 2023 at 11:57 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. What you need to know Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The Novavax vaccine is not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines are free. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to previous vaccination and help your immunity be stronger and last longer. The Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine is now the vaccine used for boosters. If you have had COVID-19 and are eligible for a booster, you can get it 6 months after you tested positive. COVID-19 vaccine boosters  It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link)  Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 6pm, Monday to Friday. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 You will need your booking reference to reschedule or cancel an appointment online. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Cancel or change your booking online | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) Call: 0800 28 29 26 Last updated: 9 November 2023 at 11:26 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: Some side effects are more serious but rare, such as a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are watched for around 15 minutes post-vaccination. Vaccinators are well trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle. Pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections including COVID-19, but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the COVID-19 vaccines. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis and pericarditis include: If you get any of these symptoms after your Pfizer or Novavax vaccination, promptly get medical help — for example from your doctor or after-hours medical service. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 at any time to get advice. If you need urgent medical help, call 111 . Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. Also tell them if you have COVID-19, or have had it. Children are less likely to have these side effects but may not tell you about the symptoms. We recommend you ask your child how they feel after being vaccinated. A rare but serious side effect is a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis). These reactions usually happen soon after your vaccination, which is why you need to wait at least 15 minutes. If you do have a serious allergic reaction, vaccinators are trained to help. COVID-19: Vaccine side effects and reactions | Ministry of Health (external link) It is recommended you do not have Novavax if you have had a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) to a previous dose of the vaccine or to any component of the vaccine. Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health (external link)  Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM | New Zealand Pharmacovigilance Centre (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams Last updated: 12 December 2023 at 10:10 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Some health and disability sector employers may require workers to be vaccinated. This is because workers come into close contact with people likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. Employers can choose to require workers to be vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccination requirements may only be appropriate if the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 at work is higher than in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read guidance on the Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand websites: COVID-19 controls at work | WorkSafe (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | Employment New Zealand (external link) Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 2:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. Find out when to use an International Travel Vaccination Pass or COVID-19 Vaccination Record as proof of your vaccination status. Find out how to use My Covid Record to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate and COVID-19 Vaccination Record. Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 2:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Find out when to use an International Travel Vaccination Pass or COVID-19 vaccination record as proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status. If you are travelling overseas and must show proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status, you need an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. This certificate is available to anyone aged 5 or over who has had any dose of a COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. We also recommend downloading a copy of your COVID-19 vaccination records from My Covid Record to use alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate has a QR code with information about the COVID-19 vaccine doses you have had in New Zealand. The details on it must match your passport — you can review these when you request the certificate. The International Travel Vaccination Certificate complies with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. It is valid for 12 months. Get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate You can no longer request a new My Vaccine Pass. If you require proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status, you can still get a copy of your vaccination record or an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. It can be used: Your vaccination record cannot be used instead of a My Vaccine Pass or an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your COVID-19 vaccination record includes: Get a COVID-19 vaccination record You can download your International Travel Vaccination Certificate or COVID-19 vaccination record from My Covid Record. How to use My Covid Record You can get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline. They are available between 8am and 6pm, Monday to Friday. Call: 0800 28 29 26 , choose option 4 You can get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate at some participating vaccination sites. Contact them first to confirm if they offer this service. COVID-19 vaccination sites | Healthpoint (external link) Last updated: 9 November 2023 at 11:27 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Anyone aged 12 or over who has accessed health or disability services in New Zealand can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: An Australian: Sign up for My Covid Record (external link)  1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the 'Passes and certificates' section, select 'Request pass or certificate'.   3. The 'Select who this pass or certificate is for' will open. Select either 'Myself' or 'Someone else'. 4. The 'Select a pass or certificate' option will appear. Select 'International Travel Vaccination Certificate'.  5. You will then be prompted to enter details, including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your International Travel Vaccination Certificate by email within 24 hours. You can print a physical copy or save it to a digital device, like your phone. To save it to your phone, click "Add to Apple Wallet" or "GPay — Save to phone" in the email you receive. If the pass does not immediately add, check you are using the Safari browser (iOS) or the Chrome browser (Android).  1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'.   3. You will be prompted to enter your email address.  4. Your COVID-19 vaccination record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. Last updated: 8 December 2022 at 5:20 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) privacy statement | Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The Novavax vaccine is not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 12:54 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. With overall COVID-19 case numbers and hospitalisations trending downwards, along with a highly vaccinated population and increased access to antiviral medicines, the last remaining mandatory COVID-19 requirements have been removed. What you need to know Thanks to the efforts of New Zealanders throughout the pandemic, we have saved thousands of lives. As well as each person and family who has followed the rules, we thank all those who have made extraordinary efforts to protect people and communities, including Stay at home if you are feeling unwell. If you, or someone in your household develops 1 or more of the following symptoms, you should take a rapid antigen test (RAT): It is important to make sure you have enough RATs at home in case anyone in the household becomes unwell and needs to test. RATs will remain free for everyone throughout 2023. You can find out participating pick-up points for RATs and masks on the Healthpoint website, or by calling 0800 222 478 and choosing option 1. COVID-19 Testing • Healthpoint (external link) Remember to report your RAT result on My Covid Record, or call the helpline on 0800 222 478 and choose option 1, so you can be connected with any help and support you might need. My Covid Record (external link) Isolation is an important way to manage the spread of the virus. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, we recommend you isolate for 5 days, even if you only have mild symptoms. Start your isolation from the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. This means you should not go to work or school. How to self-isolate If you do need to leave your home during these 5 days, it is very important you take precautions to prevent spreading COVID-19 to others.  You should wear a mask whenever you leave the house. You should not: You should discuss your return to work with your employer or your child’s return to school with their school principal. Your employer or school may require additional precautions. If you are in isolation at the time of the setting change announcement, we recommend you continue isolating until you have completed 5 days. If you have already been isolating for 6 or 7 days, and are well, you can return to your normal activities. If your symptoms have resolved and you feel well, you can return to your normal activities. Because you can remain infectious for up to 10 days, we recommend you wear a mask if you need to visit: Facilities may continue to require all staff or visitors to wear masks regardless of whether they have recently had COVID-19. Wearing a face mask If you, or a household member, test positive for COVID-19, other people living with you are also at higher risk of becoming infected. We recommend all household contacts continue to test with a RAT from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive. You are considered to be a household contact if you live with, or have spent at least 1 night or day (more than 8 hours) with someone who has COVID-19.  Household contacts should test daily for 5 days using a RAT. Household Contacts Antiviral medicines are available for people at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19, including: This will help protect our vulnerable communities. Medicines to treat COVID-19 COVID-19 has taken a toll on everyone’s mental health. Effective mental health tools are available to help people recover from the impact of the pandemic. Looking after your mental wellbeing Travellers and crew do not need proof of COVID-19 vaccination to enter New Zealand. Please check with your travel provider, for example, your airline, as they may still require proof of vaccination. If you have COVID-19 symptoms when you arrive in New Zealand by air, we encourage you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT). You can get free RATs at the airport. Information for international travellers If you live with someone who has COVID-19, we recommend you do a rapid antigen test (RAT) each day for 5 days. Where to find help, plus mental wellbeing tools to help people recover from the impact of the pandemic. The COVID-19 Protection Framework set out rules for Red, Orange and Green traffic light settings. Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 12:01 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. What you need to know Travellers and crew do not need pre-departure tests or proof of COVID-19 vaccination to enter New Zealand. Check with your airline or cruise provider as they may still require proof of vaccination. If you have COVID-19 symptoms when you arrive in New Zealand by air, we encourage you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT). You can get free RATs at the airport. Report a positive test result by calling 0800 222 478 COVID-19 and travelling in New Zealand (external link) If your RAT is positive within 7 days of arrival in New Zealand, we encourage you to also get a PCR test. These tests help us monitor new COVID-19 variants. PCR tests are free if you arrived in New Zealand by air, so make sure to tell them you are a recent international arrival. Getting a PCR test (external link) New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign commercial vessels, including trade and cargo vessels. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign registered recreational vessels — including superyachts. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. What you need to know about the current COVID-19 measures in New Zealand. Last updated: 24 August 2023 at 3:32 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Find COVID-19 information in your language, and download posters and resources for your business or household. Download our posters and resources for your home and business. Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 10:40 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information and advice on COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. Last updated: 5 October 2023 at 9:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. We are having the latest accurate COVID-19 information translated by MSD.  Last updated: 13 September 2023 at 2:51 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. Last updated: 13 November 2023 at 3:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. We are having the latest accurate COVID-19 information translated by MSD.  There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 4 October 2023 at 12:44 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 4 October 2023 at 12:45 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Find out about the COVID-19 virus and symptoms, and Long COVID. Information in audio about how to report your test results. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to manage your symptoms. Last updated: 13 November 2023 at 1:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 13 November 2023 at 1:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand.  Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 13 November 2023 at 3:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19. We are currently having this section translated. We will add NZSL videos as we receive them. Last updated: 26 September 2023 at 2:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 26 September 2023 at 2:11 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out about long COVID. Find out about face masks. Last updated: 26 September 2023 at 2:00 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 26 September 2023 at 1:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 15 November 2023 at 11:57 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive Last updated: 15 November 2023 at 12:03 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Last updated: 15 November 2023 at 12:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Download posters and resources for your household and business to help everyone keep safe from COVID-19. You can view and download all our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use, posters and resources in other languages. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) Resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid-19response@health.govt.nz Businesses and workplaces no longer need to display a QR code poster, but can choose to do so. Get your QR code poster (external link) Manage and reprint your QR code posters (external link) More information about NZ COVID Tracer QR codes | health.govt.nz (external link)   Last updated: 10 August 2023 at 3:14 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. He mōhiohio mō te urupare KOWHEORI-19 a Aotearoa ki te reo. Me noho ki te kāinga mēnā kei te māuiui koe. Mēnā ka kitea tētahi, ētahi rānei o ngā tohumate e whai ake nei i roto i tētahi o tō kāinga, me whakahaere i tētahi whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT): He mea nui ki whakarite koe he rawaka ō RAT i te kāinga, kei tūpono māuiuitia tētahi i tō kāinga, ā, me whakamātautau. Ka noho kore utu tonu ngā RAT mā te katoa, puta noa i te 2023. Ka kite koe i ngā wāhi kohi i ngā RAT me ngā maruhā ki te paetukutuku a Healthpoint, mā te waea rānei ki 0800 222 478, me te kōwhiri i te kōwhiringa 1. Ngā Whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 Me maumahara ki te pūrongo i tō hua RAT ki My Covid Record, waea rānei ki te waea āwhina i te 0800 222 478 me te kōwhiri i te kōwhiringa 1, kia pai ai te tūhono i a koe ki ngā āwhina me ngā tautoko ka hiahiatia pea e koe. My Covid Record (external link) Ko te noho taratahi tētahi huarahi whai take ki te whakahaere i te rerenga o te huaketo. Mēnā kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, e tūtohu ana mātou kia noho taratahi koe mō te 5 rā, ahakoa te ngāwari o ō tohumate. Me tīmata i te rā i tīmata ai ō tohumate, te wā rānei i pāngia koe e te mate, te mea tuatahi o ērā. Ko te tikanga o tēnei me kaua koe e haere ki te mahi, te kura rānei. Me pēhea te noho taratahi i te kāinga Ki te hiahia koe ki te wehe i tō kāinga i aua rā e rima, he mea nui tonu kia whāia e koe ngā whakatūpatotanga hei ārai atu i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ētahi atu. Me mau maruhā koe i ngā wā katoa ka wehe koe i tō whare. Kaua koe e: Me kōrero koe i tō hokinga ki te mahi ki tō kaituku mahi, te hokinga rānei o tō tamaiti ki te kura ki te tumuaki o te kura. Tērā pea ka tāpiritia atu e tō kaituku mahi, te kura rānei ētahi atu whakatūpato. Mēnā kua ora ake ō tohumate, ā, kua pai haere koe, ka taea e koe te hoki ki ō mahi o ia rā. I te mea ka noho tukumate tonu koe, atu ki te 10 rā, e tūtohu ana mātou kia mau maruhā koe ki te hiahia haere koe ki: He mea nui tonu te mau maruhā hei ārai atu i te rerenga o te māuiui arahau, tae atu ki te KOWHEORI-19, ina koa rā i roto i ngā whare hauora, hauā rānei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia mau maruhā i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga hauora. Me whakaute i ngā ture mau maruhā a ngā whare hauora/hōhipera i te wā ka toro atu koe, otirā ka tonoa pea koe ki te mau maruhā i ētahi wā, wāhi rānei i roto i te whare hauora hei āwhina ki te tiaki i te hunga mōrearea nui. Te mau maruhā E wātea ana ngā maruhā me ngā RAT kore utu i ngā wāhi kohi e whai wāhi ana. Rapua tō pokapū kohi tūtata ki a koe | Healthpoint (external link) Ki te kitea ake e pāngia ana koe, tētahi atu rānei i tō whare e te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake te tūpono mōrearea pānga ki te mate o te hunga kei tō kāinga e noho ana. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whakamātauria tonutia ngā pānga ā-kāinga katoa ki te RAT atu i te rā i pāngia ai te tangata e te mate. Ka kīia hoki koe he pānga ā-kāinga mēnā ka noho tahi koe, kua tata rānei koe ki tētahi tangata mō te pō/rā kotahi, neke atu rānei (neke atu i te 8 hāora) ki tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19.Me whakamātautau ngā pānga ā-kāinga i ia rā mō te 5 rā, ki te RAT. Ngā Pānga ā-Kāinga Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Rapua he mōhiohio, he tohutohu hoki mō te whakahaere whakamātautau, kia hea mahia ai, ā, ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te mate. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. Last updated: 24 August 2023 at 1:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, e tūtohu ana mātou kia noho taratahi koe mō te 5 rā, ahakoa te ngāwari o ō tohumate. Ngā mahi ka taea e koe i te wā e noho taratahi ana, tae atu ki ētahi tohutohu ki te mate koe ki te wehe i te noho taratahi. Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he ngāwari noa ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakahaere i ēnei i te kāinga. Engari mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana te āwhina mēnā e hiahia ana koe. I muri i tō whakaoranga i te KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua puta i te noho taratahi, tērā ētahi āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, hei whakaarotanga māhau i a koe e whakamātūtū ana. Ka taea e ngā rongoā ārai huaketo KOWHEORI-19 te āwhina i te tangata e noho mōrearea ana ki te tino māuiui koe me te KOWHEORI-19. Mai i te 13 o ngā rā o Pēpuere, me utu pea koe mō ngā toronga ki tōu kaiwhakarato hauora e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19. Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 9:52 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. I a koe e whakaora mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19, ka tere ngenge pea koe, ka tūngāngā rānei. He āhuatanga noa tēnei i muri o te pānga ki te mate. Me āta mahi noa iho koe i a koe e hoki ana ki ngā mahi o ia rā. Me mātua whakarite: kia nui te moe kia pai te kai kia whakangā ki te hiahia koe kia āta haere. Mēnā he āwangawanga ōu, me kōrero ki tō tākuta, ki tō mātanga hauora rānei. Mēnā kei te māuiui tonu koe i muri o te noho taratahi mō te 5 rā, e tūtohu ana mātou kia noho tonu ki te kāinga kia ora mai ai koe. Tērā pea ka kitea tonu te pānga o te tangata ki te mate KOWHEORI-19 i muri i te oranga ake, ā, kāore he tohumate, engari ko te āhua nei kua kore e hōrapa i a koe te mate i muri i te 10 rā, atu i te Rā 0, otirā koinei te rā i tīmata ō tohumate, i kitea rānei tō pānga ki te mate, arā, te mea tuatahi o ēnei. Me kōrero koe ki tō kaiwhakahaere mō te wā tika e hoki ai koe ki te mahi. Tērā pea ka tāpiritia atu e tō kaituku mahi ētahi atu whakatūpato. Mēnā kei te māuiui tonu koe, tō tamaiti rānei i muri o te noho taratahi mō te 5 rā, e tūtohu ana mātou kia noho tonu ki te kāinga kia ora mai ai koe, tō tamaiti rānei. Ka pā tēnei ki ngā kura kōhungahunga, kura tuatahi, tuarua me ngā kura wānanga. Ehara i te mea me whakaatu taunakitanga o tētahi RAT, PCR rānei e wātea ai koe ki te hoki ki te kura. Me kōrero koe i te hokinga ki te kura ki tō tumuaki, i te mea tērā pea he whakatūpato anō āna. Ki te māuiui tonu te tamaiti, ki te kino haere rānei ngā tohumate i muri i te 10 rā, me kaua ia e hoki ki te kura. Me kōrero koe ki tō tākuta, me waea rānei ki a Healthline  0800 358 5453. I te wā kāore koe i kori tinana, i neke haere rānei i te wā e māuiui ana, me whai wā tō tinana ki te hoki anō ki tōna anō pakaritanga o mua. Ka taea e tō tākuta, mātanga hauora rānei te whakarato mōhiohio ki a koe o te hoki anō ki ngā mahi kori tinana e tika ana mōu. Ka kitea e koe ētahi atu mōhiohio o te hoki ki ngā mahi kori tinana ki te pae tukutuku a Healthify. Te hoki atu ki ngā mahi kori tinana me te whakapakari tinana i muri i te KOWHEORI-19 | Healthify (external link) Horapa ai te KOWHEORI-19 ina whakatata atu koe ki te tangata e pokea ana, i te wā ka maremare, ka matihe rānei ia. Ahakoa he iti ake te tūponotanga, ka pokea pea koe ina pā tō ringa ki tētahi mea tāhawahawa, kātahi ka whakapā atu ki tō waha, ihu, karu rānei. He wā poto noa te oranga o te huaketo i runga i ngā papa me ngā mata. Engari he makuhane te kiri o te huaketo, e ngāwari ake ai te patu mā te horoi me te patu huakita. I te wā ka kitea he pānga tūturu ki te mate KOWHEORI-19 i rō whare i roto i te 24 hāora, he nui ake te tūpono kitea o te huaketo i runga i ngā mata. Me horoi, me patu huakita hoki i ngā mata katoa. He pai noa iho ngā hua horoi o te kāinga pēnei i te hopiwē, te whakakōmā rānei hei horoi i tō kāinga.  Me horoi ngā mata ki te hopiwē i te tuatahi, kātahi ka whakamahi i te patu huakita.  Ka taea tonu te ngote puehu pērā i mua. Me mātua whakarite: kia mau karapu i te wā e horoi ana hei tiaki i ō ringa i ngā matū, ā, me horoi, me porowhiu rānei ngā karapu ka oti ana te whakamahi kia whāia ngā tohutohu haumaru i runga i te tapanga hua kia patu huakitatia ngā mata pānga nui pēnei i ngā kakau kuaha, ngā whakakā me ngā roumamao kia huakina ngā wini kia rere ai te hau kia horoia ngā rīhi katoa i whakamahia e koe i te wā noho taratahi - me wai mahana, me hopiwē, me rau ki te pūrere horoi rānei kia horoia ngā weweru me ngā pane mopi i muri i te whakamahinga kia porowhiua ngā para katoa tae atu ki ngā rauangiangi me ngā maruhā kia horoia ngā kākahu me ngā hīti, otirā kaua e aroarowhakitia, hei whakaiti i te rerenga o te huaketo mā te hau me tīmata ki ngā mata teitei ake, ka heke whakararo ai kia kohia ngā puehu me ngā paru i taka. me horoi ngā mata kāore i tino pāngia i te tuatahi kia kaua e haere mai i tētahi taiwhanga kāore i te mā, ki tētahi e mā ana, kia kore e tāhawahawatia me horoi, me whakamaroke ō ringa ka oti ana te whakamā. Me rau ngā para tāhawahawa pēnei i ngā rauangiangi me ngā muku mākū ki tētahi pēke rerekē, ka here. Kātahi ka āhei te porowhiu i tēnei pēke ki te ipu para whānui o te kāinga. Mēnā kāore he ratonga kohi para o tō nōhanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia purua ngā para kua pokea, ki tētahi pēke rerekē, ka herea hoki. Kātahi ka purua taua pēke ki te pēke para whānui. Tirohia te paetukutuku a tō kaunihera mō ētahi atu tohutohu o ngā kōwhiringa porowhiu para i tō rohe. Mō te tokomaha, e kore pea e eke te kino o te pānga ki te mate KOWHEORI-19 ki tō pānga o mua. Engari tērā pea ka rerekē ngā tohumate ka pā kia koe. I ia wā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ka piki tō mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI roa, me ētahi atu mate. Ki te pāngia anō koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei tonu koe ki ngā tohutohu ōrite, te āwhina me te tautoko hoki, anō nei he pokenga KOWHEORI-19 hou. Ki te pāngia anō koe e ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua iti iho i te 28 ngā rā mai i tō pokenga o mua: Mēnā he iti noa te mōrearea o tō pānga ki te mate taumaha, kāore koe e mate ki te whakahaere RAT anō e tūtohu ana mātou kia noho koa ki te kāinga kia ora mai anō ai. Mēnā he take hauora mauroa, he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 rānei e kino haere ana, me rapu tohutohu mai i tētahi kaimahi hauora, i Healthline rānei 0800 358 5453. Mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 anō āu, ā, kua neke atu i te 29 rā mai i tō pokenga o mua, me whakamātautau ki te RAT. Mēnā ka tohu kei te pāngia koe, me noho ki te kāinga, ka whai i ngā tohutohu ōrite ki te wā tuatahi i pokea koe. E tūtohu ana mātou kia noho taratahi mō te 5 rā, neke atu rānei, ā, ka whai i ngā tohutohu mō te hunga e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19. Me whakahaere whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 Ki te tohu ake te whakamātautau kāore koe i te pāngia: tērā pea he mate kē atu ō tohumate, pēnei i te maremare, te whurū rānei ā, ki te pērā tonu ō tohumate, me whakahaere RAT anō, kia 48 hāora i muri iho mēnā ko te hua o te whakamātautau kāore tonu i tohu ake i te mate, me noho ki te kāinga kia ora mai anō ai. Ko te pokenga anō, tō pānga anō ki te KOWHEORI-19, i muri i te pokenga o mua, ahakoa te momo. Ka nui ake tō tūpono pānga anō ki te mate i te wā ka memeha haere tō urupare awhikiri mai i te kano ārai mate, tō pokenga o mua rānei ki te KOWHEORI-19, i te hekenga o te wā. Kāore i te tino mārama te pātahi o te pokenga anō ki te KOWHEORI-19. Engari ka pātahi haere te pokenga anō i te wā ka ara mai ngā momo hou, ā, ka horapa haere. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i ngā rā 28 kua hipa, ā, kātahi ka pāngia tētahi atu i tō whare, kāore koe e kīia ana he Pānga ā-Kāinga, ā, kāore koe e mate ki te whakahaere whakamātautau. Mēnā kua aua atu i te 29 rā mai i tō pokenga KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka tohu ake te whakamātautau kei te pāngia tētahi i tō kāinga, me whakahaere whakamātautau koe i ia rā mō te 5 rā. Ko te KOWHEORI roa, ko ngā tohumate ka pā tonu, ka whanake tonu rānei i muri o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 tuatahi. I te nuinga o te wā he roa ake i te 12 wiki i te pānga tuatahi o te tangata ki te mate. Ko te tokomaha o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ka ora ake i ngā tohu tārū me ngā tohumate i roto i te 2 ki te 4 wiki. Ā, ko te tikanga ka hoki anō ki ngā mahi katoa i mahia i mua i te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 hei te 12 wiki. Engari, ka pūrongotia e ētahi tāngata ngā tohumate huhua i tua atu o te wā arowhānui o te whakaora. Ka mau tonu ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI roa mō ētahi wiki, ētahi marama rānei. Mō te tautoko ki te whakahaere me te whakahaumanu i te KOWHEORI roa, me rapu āwhina i tō tākuta, i tō mātanga hauora rānei. Te KOWHEORI roa Ahakoa kua pāngia kētia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, kua whai kano ārai mate rānei, me ū tonu ki ngā whanonga hauora. Ka taea te pāngia anō ki te COVID-19. Kia ū ki ngā whanonga hauora Kāore te pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 i te hoatu i te taumata ōrite o te ārai mate i te wero ki te kano ārai mate. Kei te mōhiotia hoki ka heke haere tō parenga mai i te pota matua o te kano ārai mate, i te pahuretanga o te wā. E noho pakari ai tō awhikiri, me mataara tonu koe ki ō whiwhinga kano ārai mate - tae atu ki ngā pota āpiti. Mā tēnei e whakaiti i tō tūpono pāngia e te mate i te KOWHEORI-19, me te uru ki te hōhipera. Me tatari koe mō te 6 marama i muri i te pānga ki te mate, i mua i tō whiwhi i tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Whāia te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Last updated: 24 August 2023 at 1:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Mēnā e whakaraerae ana koe kia taumaha te pānga ōu e te KOWHEORI-19 māu tonu e whiwhi i te tiaki hauora koreutu. Nā te horapa haere o te mate Omicron, ka taea e te nuinga te whakaora ki te kāinga. E pērā ai nā te tini whāioio kua whiwhi i te rongoā āraimate me te awhikiri māori tukupū. Waihoki, nā te āheinga māmā ki te whakamātautau me te noho taratahi, ka taea ai e mātou te aro atu ki te hunga whakaraerae ake. Mēnā he nui ake tō whakaraerae kia taumaha rawa te pānga e KOWHEORI-19 māu tonu e whiwhi i te tiaki hauora koreutu i tōu tākuta. Mā reira, e aukatia ai ngā tāngata e whakaraerae katoa ana kia pāngia kinotia rawatia e te KOWHEORI-19, kei roto ko: Ngā māuiuitanga e teitei ana te tūraru Ko wai e māraurau ana ki ngā rongoā patu huaketo Mēnā e māraurau ana koe, ehara i te mea me utu koe mō ngā utu rongoā e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, mō te tiaki hauora rānei hei te pānga tuatahi ōu o te KOWHEORI-19. Ina pāngia mai koe e te KOWHEORI roa, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki ngā toronga anō, me mate koe ki te utu noa mō aua toronga ki tōu tākuta. Kei roto hoki ko ngā utu whakarato whakahau rongoā. Mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe te tiaki ki te hōhipera, he koreutu tonu. Mēnā kei te noho taratahi koe ki te kāinga, me waea atu koe ki Healthline ki 0800 358 5453 mēnā he hiahia tōu ki ngā kupu āwhina mō te whakahaere i ōu tohumate. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakapā atu ki tōu mātanga taka rongoā ā-takiwā, ki tōu kaiwhakarato hauora rānei mēnā me haere ā-tinana koe ki tētahi. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 E wātea ana, he koreutu hoki, ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere (RAT) mō ngā tāngata katoa mai i ngā pokapū e whai wāhi ana. He pēhea te tiki i tētahi RAT He koreutu, e wātea ana hoki ngā rongoā āraimate i ngā kaiwhakarato hauora me ngā kēmihi. Ngā rongoā āraimate KOWHEORI-19 Ko ngā huarahi pai katoa ki te tiaki i a koe anō me ētahi atu ko ēnei: Last updated: 11 April 2023 at 10:45 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Ka taea e te nuinga te noho pai nā runga i te āwhina a te whānau me ngā hoa. Engari ki te hiahia koutou ko tō whānau i ētahi atu āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, ka taea pea ētahi atu āwhina pēnei i te: Ka taea e te katoa te tono āwhina mēnā e hiahiatia ana - ehara i te mea me noho koe i runga i te penihana. Ka taea e koe te waea atu ki te waea oranga KOWHEORI mō te koreutu i te 0800 512 337 , 8am ki te 8pm, 7 rā i te wiki. Me whakapā tonu koe ki ō hoa me tō whānau, me ngā rōpū hapori e whai pānga ana ki a koe. Mā rātou e: Ina kino haere ō tohumate, ka hiahia rānei koe i ētahi tiakanga hauora uruhi, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora tūtata, ki a Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ina kino haere tō whakangā, te tangata rānei e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he mamae rānei te uma, e hemohemo haere ana, me tere te waea ki 111 . Mēnā kāore koe i te mahi nā tētahi take hauora, kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi mō ngā tamōtanga māuiui, mō ētahi atu momo tamōtanga rānei.  He mōhiohio ā Employment NZ mō ngā whiwhinga tamōtanga. Ki te hiahia āwhina koe me ngā utu whitawhita, ka māraurau pea koe ki te tautoko i a Te Hiranga Tangata. Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, e āwangawanga ana rānei mō tētahi atu, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. Rapua ngā waea āwhina ki te rapu tautoko Last updated: 24 August 2023 at 11:33 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Mēnā kua whakahaeretia e koe he whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT), pūrongotia tō hua e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe ki te ipurangi, me waea rānei ki te waea āwhina. Tuihono: My Covid Record (external link) Waea: 0800 222 478 Me pēhea te pūrongo i tō hua RAT Kātahi a Te Whatu Ora ka tuku pātuhi ki a koe i ngā nama ōkawa 2328, 2648 rānei hei whakaū i tō hua kei te pāngia koe. He mōhiohio kei roto mō te wā noho taratahi e tūtohua ana, me ētahi atu kōrero whaitake. Mēnā i whakahaeretia he whakamātautau PCR, ka whiwhi pātuhi koe me tō hua. Ki te pātai tō kaituku mahi ki te kite hāponotanga o tō herenga kia noho taratahi koe, ka taea te whakaatu i tēnei pātuhi. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi rawa he tiwhikete hauora i tō tākuta. Ngā whiwhinga tamōtanga, utu hoki, hei te wā o te KOWHEORI-19 | Employment New Zealand (external link) Ki te pāngia koe e te mate KOWHEORI-19, e tūtohua ana kia noho taratahi koe mō te 5 rā, ahakoa he ngāwari noa ō tohumate, tīmata ki te Rā 0. Ko te Rā 0 te rā i tīmata ō tohumate, i pāngia rānei koe e te mate, te mea tuatahi o ērā. Ko te tikanga o te noho taratahi, ko te kore e haere ki te mahi, te kura rānei. Me noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e whakapā atu ki ētahi atu tāngata i tō whare. Me pēhea te noho taratahi Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi ngā Pānga ā-Kāinga. Mēnā he Pānga ā-kāinga koe o tētahi atu kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, e tūtohu ana mātou kia whakahaeretia e koe he RAT i ia rā, mō te 5 rā. He Pānga ā-Kāinga koe mēnā: Noho tūturu, noho hamanga ai koe i roto i tētahi whare, hei tauira, tiakanga tamariki tiri, me te tangata kei te pāngia e te mate, ā, he neke atu i te 1 pō, rā rānei (neke atu i te 8 hāora) ki taua whare i te wā e pokea ana te tangata e te mate. He Pānga ā-Kāinga hoki koe ki te kore koe e noho tūturu ki tētahi whare me te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, engari i noho koe i te taha o taua tangata ki te rūma kotahi mō te pō. E wātea ana ngā rongoā patu huaketo koreutu hei whakamaimoa i te KOWHEORI-19 mō te hunga mōrearea kei pāngia e te mate taumaha, ā, me ētahi atu tāngata ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā rongoā hei whakamaimoa i te KOWHEORI-19 Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 - ina koa mēnā kua whiwhi kano ārai mate me ngā pota āpiti - ka ngāwari noa te pānga ki te mate, ā, ka pai noa te ora mai i te kāinga. Kitea ai ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19, e 2 ki te 5 rā i muri o te pānga o te tangata ki te mate, engari tērā pea ka eke rawa ki te 14 rā. He āhua ōrite ngā tohumate o te omicron ki ētahi atu momo. Ngā tohutohu mō te whakahaere i ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Ki te hiahia tohutohu koe me pēhea te whakamaimoa i ō tohumate, ka kino haere rānei ō tohumate, me kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora, me waea rānei ki te COVID-19 Healthline ki 0800 358 5453. Ki te kino haere ō tohumate, ki te hiahia tiakanga hauora whitawhita rānei koe, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora pātata, ki a Healthline rānei ki 0800 358 5453. Ki te tūngāngā haere koe, te tangata rānei e tiakina ana e koe, ki te mamae te uma, ki te whakahemohemo rānei, waea ki 111 ināia tonu nei. Mēnā e māraurau ana koe, ehara i te mea me utu koe i ngā utu rongoā e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, mō te tiaki hauora rānei i tō pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ina pāngia mai koe e te  KOWHEORI roa, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki ngā toronga anō, me mate koe ki te utu noa mō aua toronga ki tōu tākuta. Kei roto hoki ko ngā utu whakarato whakahau rongoā. Ko ētahi o te hunga māraurau ko: ngā tāngata kei a rātou ētahi māuiuitanga e teitei ana te tūraru Ngāi Māori Ngā iwi o Te Moananui-a-Kiwa ētahi tāngata whaikaha te hunga pakeke i te 65 tau ērā atu anō e māraurau ana ki te whiwhi i ngā rongoā patu huaketo ngā rerenga me ngā kaikimi punanga te hunga kāingakore, te hunga rānei e noho ana i ngā wharenoho tauwhiro ngā tāngata e noho nei i ētahi takiwā mamao, taiwhenua hoki kāore i a rātou te āheinga māmā ki ngā ratonga hauora. Mēnā ka uru koe ki te hōhipera, he koreutu tonu. Ngā māuiuitanga mōrearea nui Ko wai e māraurau ana ki ngā rongoā patu huaketo I te mutunga o tō noho taratahi mō te 5 rā, mēnā kua ora ake ō tohumate, ā, kua pai haere koe, ka taea e koe te hoki ki ō mahi o ia rā. Mēnā kei te māuiui tonu koe, e tūtohu ana mātou kia noho tonu ki te kāinga kia ora mai ai koe. Ka whiwhi karere pātuhi pea koe e whakaū ana i te mutunga o tō wā noho taratahi, engari ehara i te mea me tatari rawa ki te karere ōkawa e puta ai koe. Ehara i te mea me tohu te RAT i tō kore pānga ki te mate e hoki ai koe ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei, engari me kōrero koe ki tō kaituku mahi, te tumuaki kura rānei, i te mea tērā pea he whakatūpato anō a tō kaituku mahi, a te kura rānei. Tērā pea e pokea tonu ana te tangata e te mate i muri mai i te 5 rā. Mēnā kei te māuiui tonu koe i muri o te noho taratahi mō te 5 rā, e tūtohu ana mātou kia noho tonu ki te kāinga kia ora mai ai koe. I muri i tō putanga i te noho taratahi, e tūtohu ana mātou kia mau maruhā ki te toro atu koe ki tētahi whare hauora, tētahi whare tiaki kaumātua, ki te whakapā atu rānei ki tētahi e mōrearea ana i te pānga kino ki te KOWHEORI-19. I muri i te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 Last updated: 24 August 2023 at 1:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Mēnā kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, e tūtohua ana kia noho taratahi koe mō te 5 rā, ahakoa te ngāwari o ō tohumate, otirā me tīmata ki te Rā 0. Ko te Rā 0 te rā i tīmata ai ō tohumate, te wā rānei i pāngia koe e te mate, te mea tuatahi o ērā. Ko te tikanga o tēnei me kaua koe e haere ki te mahi, te kura rānei. Ki te hiahia koe ki te wehe i tō kāinga i aua rā e rima e tūtohua ana kia noho taratahi koe, he mea nui tonu kia whāia e koe ngā whakatūpatotanga hei ārai atu i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ētahi atu. Me mau maruhā koe i ngā wā katoa ka wehe koe i tō whare. Kaua e toro atu ki tētahi whare hauora (hāunga ki te rapu haumanutanga), tētahi whare tiaki kaumātua, kaua rānei e whakapā atu ki tētahi e mōrearea ana i te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19. Me kōrero koe i tō hokinga ki te mahi ki tō kaituku mahi, te hokinga rānei o tō tamaiti ki te kura ki te tumuaki o te kura, i te mea tērā pea he whakatūpato anō a tō kaituku mahi, a te kura rānei. Mēnā kei tētahi wharenoho tīkoke, wharenoho whakatōpū rānei koe e noho ana, me ū ki ngā tohutohu noho taratahi ōrite kei tēnei whārangi: me mau maruhā ki ngā wāhi pāpori ki te mate koe ki te wehe i tō wharenoho, hei tauira, ki te taiwhanga horoi kākahu tiri me tū tīrara i ētahi atu i te wharenoho kaua e whakamahi i te paparewa me ētahi atu kaua e whakamahi i ngā wāhi tiri pēnei i te whare kori tinana, ngā puna kaukau, rūma werawera rānei i a koe e noho taratahi ana. Ina pā he take ohorere, me whai tonu koe i ngā tikanga whakatahi pātahi - me rite he maruhā ki te taha o te kuaha, mō te tūponotanga. Tērā ētahi huarahi ngāwari ki te whakaiti i te mōrearea o te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e noho taratahi ana me ō tamariki. Mēnā kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, engari anō āu tamariki, ā, huri kōaro rānei, me: whakaiti i te pānga ki a rātou i te wā ka taea moe i roto i tētahi atu rūma wehe i āu tamariki mēnā ka taea karo i te pānga ki ētahi atu tāngata i tō kāinga mēnā ka taea mau maruhā i te wā kei roto i te rūma me ētahi atu huakina ngā wini kia hauhau ai. Kei te mārama mātou tērā pea kāore e taea ētahi o ēnei, ina koa me ngā tamariki kōhungahunga. He tino whaitake te maruhā me te kōhauhau hei whakaiti i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka āhei koe ki te kori tinana i waho i tō kāinga i te wā e noho taratahi ana. Ka āhei koe ki te kori tinana i tō paekiritata, engari kaua ngā wāhi tiri, pēnei i te puna kaukau, te whare kori tinana rānei. Kaua e kori tinana i te taha o ētahi atu, māna, nō tō kāinga ake rātou. Kia mahara ki te: tū tīrara i ētahi atu whai i ngā koringa tinana ngāwari. kawe maruhā - ehara i te mea me mau te maruhā, engari tērā pea ka hāneanea ake ki a koe. Last updated: 24 August 2023 at 1:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. E wātea ana ngā rongoā ārai huaketo KOWHEORI-19 hei whakamaimoa i te hunga e āhei ana kua pāngia e te mate, he tāngata pānga ā-kāinga rānei nō tētahi tangata kua pāngia e te mate KOWHEORI-19 i te kāinga. Me mātua tīmata ki te kai i ngā rongoā KOWHEORI-19 i roto i ngā rā e rima tuatahi o te pāngia e ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ina whiwhi i te tīmatanga o te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea e ēnei rongoā te whakaiti i te urunga ki te hōhipera me te matenga. Kāore he utu mō ēnei rongoā ki te hunga e āhei ana e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e āhei ana, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi i tētahi tūtohutanga rongoā mai i tōu ake kaiwhakarato hauora, ka whakaratoa pea te rongoā me te kore tūtohutanga rongoā mai i ētahi kēmehi. Ko te hunga he nui te mōrea o te tino māuiui mai i te KOWHEORI-19 kei te āhei atu ki ngā maimoatanga mā ngā rongoā KOWHEORI-19. Kia mohio : Kāore pea e tika ēnei rongoā mō te katoa, ahakoa ka ū pea rātau ki ngā whakaritenga. Me kōrero koe ki tō rata, tō kēmehi rānei kia kite ai mēnā kei te āhei atu koe, mēnā rānei e tika ana tēnei rongoā mōu. Me mātua whai koe i tētahi o ēnei e whai ake: E rua ngā rongoā ārai huaketo KOWHEORI-19 e wātea ana ki te whakamaimoa i ngā tūpono kēhi KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori: E 2 ngā rongoā o Paxlovid (nirmatrelvir me te ritonavir) ka kainga ngātahitia. Ka whakaiti i te nui o te huaketo kei roto i tō tinana. Ka kainga ngā pire Paxlovid mō te 5 rā. He mea nui te kōrero atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora noa, kaitaka rongoā mō ngā mate, me ngā rongoā, ngā rongoā otaota, ngā hua kai tāpiri rānei e kainga ana e koe. Kei pāngia te haumarutanga o Paxlovid. Mēnā i tukuna he ōta rongoā tōmua mō Paxlovid, ka hiahia tonu pea koe i tētahi aromatawai haumanu i mua i te whiwhi i ēnei rongoā. Haere ki te Kaiārahi Hauora mō ngā mōhiohio mō te Paxlovid, arā, me pēhea te whakapeto, ngā mea hei whakaarotanga i mua i tō whiwhi, me ngā pānga kino ka taea. He mōhiohio kei raro mō te hokinga mai pea o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i muri tonu i te mutunga o te maimoatanga Paxlovid. Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te Paxlovid | Kaiārahi Hauora (external link) Kua kore a Molnupiravir e tūtohua ināianei. He rongoā te molnupiravir (Lagevrio) e whakaiti ana i te nui o te huaketo kei roto i tō tinana. Ka kainga ngā pire molnupiravir mō te 5 rā. Haere ki te Kaiārahi Hauora mō ngā mōhiohio mō te molnupiravir, arā, me pēhea te whakapeto, ngā mea hei whakaarotanga i mua i tō whiwhi, me ngā pānga kino ka taea. Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te molnupiravir | Kaiārahi Hauora (external link) Mēnā ki ōu whakaaro kei te āhei pea koe, me kōrero ki tō rata mā runga waea mō te whiwhi i tētahi ōta rongoā mō te rongoā KOWHEORI-19 e tika ana mōu. Ka āwhina ia i a koe ki te whiriwhiri mēnā e tika ana koe mō te rongoā huaketo. Kei runga i ētahi āhuatanga maha, pērā i ō tau, mātāwaka, ētahi atu mate me te tūnga werohanga. Mēnā ki ōu whakaaro kei te āhei atu pea koe, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi i ngā rongoā KOWHEORI-19 me te kore whai tūtohutanga mai i tō kēmehi. Me kōrero ki tō kēmehi mā runga waea kia kite ai mēnā e pai ana tērā mōu. Ka whakahaerehia e te kēmehi he aromatawai haumanu me te tirotiro i tō āhei i mua i te tuku rongoā. Ka kitea ngā kēmehi e whakarato ana i ngā ārai huaketo i Healthpoint (external link) . Me whai tūtohu rongoā i ēnei kēmehi. (external link) Kāore e hiahiatia ana tētahi tūtohu rongoā i ēnei kēmehi. (external link) Mēnā kei te noho mōrea koe i te mate kino mai i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi i tētahi tūtohu rongoā mai i tō rata i mua i tō pāngia e te mate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka whakaritea mai e te kēmehi te tūtohu rongoā mēnā ka māuiui koe. Mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate me te pā mai o ngā tohumate, ka taea e koe te whakarite kia tukuna atu te rongoā e ō hoa, te whānau rānei, mā tētahi atu tikanga, pērā i tō kēmehi i ētahi wā. Me kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora kia kite ai mēnā ko te whiwhi tūtohu rongoā i mua i tō māuiuitanga te mea tika mōu. Tē taea e koe te whiwhi tūtohu rongoā hei heri ki tāwāhi mō te tūpono pā mai o te KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e hāereere ana. Mō ētahi tāngata, ka hoki mai pea ngā tohumate i muri i te otinga o te whiwhi Paxlovid. E mōhiotia ana tēnei ko te hokinga mai o te Paxlovid. Ko te āhua nei kāore pea te hunga e pāngia ana e te hokinga mai o te Paxlovid e pāngia kinotia. I te nuinga o te wā he māmā ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakatau i roto i te toru rā. Ka pā noa mai ngā tohumate mō ētahi hunga e whakaora mai ana i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ka kore atu, ka hoki mai anō i tētahi wā, ahakoa kua whiwhi rongoā ārai huaketo i mua. Me noho koe ki te kāinga ki te whakaora kia eke rā anō te 24 haora o te korenga o ngā tohumate mēnā: Ehara i te mea me whiwhi Paxlovid anō koe mēnā ka hoki mai ō tohumate i tēnei wā. Me pānui i ngā kōrero mō te pāngia anō e te KOWHEORI-19 (external link) Mēnā he mate mauroa tāu, kei te kino haere atu rānei ō tohumate, waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora rānei. Last updated: 24 August 2023 at 1:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me aha koe ki te whakariterite mōna. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā momo rerekē o te huaketo Rapua hei āhea koe mau maruhā ai, ā, me pēhea hoki te tono koreutu. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā momo rerekē o te huaketo Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te horapa o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, he aha hoki ngā tohumate rerekē o te huaketo Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 1:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Ko te maruhā he rautaki tiaki i a tātou, me ētahi atu hoki. E tūtohu ana mātou kia mau maruhā i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga hauora, me te whakahau i a koe ki te mau i tētahi ki ngā wāhi rō whare, apiapi, kōpā hoki. He mea nui tonu te mau maruhā hei ārai atu i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19 me ētahi atu māuiui arahau, i roto i ngā whare hauora, hauā rānei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia mau maruhā koe ina toro atu ki ngā ratonga hauora, pēnei i ngā hōhipera, ngā tākuta, ngā kēmehi, me ngā tākuta niho. Ko tā ngā kaiwhakarato hauora pea: He tono i a koe kia mau maruhā i ētahi wā, wāhi whāiti rānei hei āwhina ki te tiaki i te hunga mōrearea nui ki te māuiui kino nā te KOWHEORI-19. He whakahau i ngā kaimahi me ngā manuhiri katoa ki te mau maruhā i roto i ō rātou whare mahi. He whakahau kia mau maruhā e ū ai ki ngā takohanga Hauora me te Haumaru. He tino whai take hoki te mau maruhā i te wā e toro atu ana ki te hunga mōrearea nui o te pānga kino ki te mate. Ka uru ki tēnei te hunga pakeke ake, ngā kaumātua, ngā pēpi, te hunga kei ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, te hunga māuiui/tūroro kei rō hōhipera, te hunga pāngia ki ētahi atu mate, me te hunga hauā hoki. Mēnā e pokea ana koe e te mate, ā, me tiro, me toro rānei ki te kaiwhakarato hauora ki te rapu rongoā mōu ake, ka taea e te maruhā pipiri tika ki tō kanohi te ārai atu i ngā korakora poke kia kore e horapa ki ētahi atu, otirā hei tiaki i te hunga pātata ki a koe, me te āwhina ki te whakaiti i te tūpono pokenga ki te mate. E whakahau ana mātou kia mau maruhā koe mēnā: he Pānga ā-Kāinga koe, ā, e whakamātautau ana koe i ia rā mō te 5 rā he nui ake tō mōrearea pānga ki te mate kino nā te KOWHEORI-19 kei te hiahia koe ki te whakaiti i te mōrearea o te pānga ki te mate. Kei te whakahau hoki mātou kia mau maruhā koe i ēnei wāhi: ngā tūnuku tūmatanui, pēnei i ngā pahi, ngā tereina, ngā wāhi tūroto o ngā waka kōpiko, ngā rererangi, ngā tēkehi me ngā waka-tiri ngā wāhi apiapi ngā wāhi kōpani, he iti te kōhauhau ngā wāhi tū pātata, pēnei i ngā kōrero kanohi-ki-te-kanohi. Ka hiahia tonu pea ētahi wāhi kia mau maruhā koe. Nō rātou tēnei whakatau, ā, ehara i te herenga ā-kāwanatanga. Ka taea e koe ngā maruhā koreutu i te wā ka kohia e koe ngā whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) koreutu i ngā wāhi kohi e whai wāhi ana. Ehara i te mea me māuiui koe, whai tohumate rānei o te KOWHEORI-19. Kimihia he wāhi kohi tūtata ki a koe i runga o Healthpoint. Kimihia he wāhi whakamātautau e tuku ana i ngā maruhā koreutu | Healthpoint (external link) Mēnā he nui ake tō mōrearea pānga ki te mate taumaha, ka taea e koe ngā maruhā P2/N95 koreutu. Te hunga mōrearea nui i te mate taumaha nā te KOWHEORI-19 Last updated: 24 August 2023 at 1:24 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. Kimihia ngā mōhiohio mō te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki hei te wā o te urutā KOWHEORI-19. Kei te hiahia tātou katoa ki te kai me ngā mea waiwai pērā i te rongoā i ngā wā o te rāhuitanga KOWHEORI-19, nō reira kaua e whakatiki i a koe. Kei tēnei pārongo ngā mōhiohio mō ngā huarahi maha e whiwhi kai ai, e whiwhi mea waiwai ai koe. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 1:30 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support (external link) Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Haere ki: Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) Last updated: 24 August 2023 at 1:26 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Rapua he mōhiohio, he tohutohu hoki mō te whakahaere whakamātautau, kia hea mahia ai, ā, ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te mate. Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi RAT kore utu. Ka taea te kohi i ēnei mai i tētahi wāhi kohinga, mā tētahi atu rānei e kohi. Māu tonu e whakahaere i ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere, mā tētahi atu rānei. Me pūrongo i ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere (RAT) mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe, kāore rānei. Ka taea tēnei mā te ipurangi mā My Covid Record, mā te waea rānei i te waea āwhina. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, e tūtohu ana mātou kia noho taratahi koe mō te 5 rā, ahakoa te ngāwari o ō tohumate. E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Kimihia he wāhi kohinga i konei | Healthpoint (external link) Ka taea te tiki i ngā maruhā ā-rongoā kore utu i te wā ka kohi koe i ō RAT mai i ngā wāhi whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whakaatu tohumate KOWHEORI-19 koe. Mēnā he nui ake tō mōrearea pānga ki te mate, ka taea ngā momo maruhā P2/N95 kore utu. Mēnā kei tētahi wāhi tuawhenua koe e noho ana, he āhuatanga whakatapoko motuhake rānei āu, waea ki 0800 222 478 ka pēhi i te pātene 3 ki te kōrero i ō whiringa. Last updated: 24 August 2023 at 1:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. E taea ana e te hunga katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, te hono ake ki My Covid Record. I te tuatahi me whakarite i tētahi My Health Account, mā tēnei e uru ai koe ki ō pūkete KOWHEORI-19 ā-tuihono. Me whiwhi koe i tāu ake wāhitau īmēra ki te whakarite i tētahi pūkete. My Covid Record Kia whiwhi koe i tētahi pūkete, ka taea e koe te tuku ake i ō hua: Mēnā e pūrongo ana koe i ōu ake hua, ā, i hē tō tāuru i te hua, he 20 mineti te wā ki a koe ki te tango ake. Ataata: Me pēhea te pūrongo i te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) (external link) Mēnā kei te hiahia āwhina koe me My Covid Record, whakapā atu ki tira a Te Manatū Hauora, 8am ki te 8pm, e 7 rā i te wiki. He pai tonu kia whakaritea e koe tō tau NHI. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 Ka taea e koe te pūrongo i ngā hua o tō RAT mā te waea, ina hiahia rānei ki te pūrongo i ngā hua RAT a tētahi atu, ā, kāore i a koe tāna tau NHI, mā te waea ki 0800 222 478 me te kōwhiri i te whiringa 3. Last updated: 13 September 2022 at 11:49 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [PDF, 559 KB] Ka rerekē te āhua o ngā tohutohu whakamātautau i runga anō i te āhua o te momo. Whāia ai e ngā kete whakamātautau ākipaturopi ngā tohutohu i raro nei, engari kaua te katoa. Tēnā whāia ngā tohutohu a te kaihanga . Wātea ai ngā hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere i te 20 mineti. E tohu ana tētahi rārangi i te taha o te C, kāore he mate Ina whiwhi koe i te hua whakamātautau kāore he mate, ā, kāore ō tohumate, kua mutu te wāhanga ki a koe. E tohu ana ngā rārangi e rua, i te taha o te C me te T, e pāngia ana koe e te mate. Mēnā kāore he rārangi i te taha o te C, e tohu ana tērā he muhu te whakamātautau. Mēnā he muhu tētahi hua, me whakamātau anō. Me maumahara ki te rēhita i tō hua RAT ki My COVID Record (waea rānei ki te waea āwhina i 0800 222 478 me te kōwhiri i te kōwhiringa 1), e āhei ai koe ki ngā āwhina me ngā tautoko ka hiahiatia pea e koe. My COVID Record (external link) Last updated: 24 August 2023 at 1:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero me aha koe ina haere atu ana i Aotearoa, hoki mai ana rānei. Rapua he kōrero me aha koe ina haere atu ana koe ki Aotearoa. E whakahau ana mātou i te tangata kātahi anō ka tau ki Aotearoa kia whakahaeretia he whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) mēnā he tohumate Kowheori-19 āna i te taenga mai. Mēnā i rere mai koe, ka tonoa hoki koe ki te pūrongo i tētahi hua e tohu ana kei te pāngia e te mate, me te whakahaere i tētahi whakamātautau PCR. Me aha koe mēnā kei te whakarite koe ki te wehe i Aotearoa. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Ki te hiahia koe i ētahi RAT me kohi i tētahi wāhi kohi, mā tētahi atu rānei e kohi māhau. He koreutu ngā whakamātautau Kowheori-19 mā te katoa i Aotearoa, me ngā tūruhi. Kimihia he wāhi kohi tūtata ki a koe | Healthpoint (external link) He tohutohu whakamahi kei roto i te kete whakamātautau. Ki te kore he tohutohu i roto i te pouaka, haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora mō ngā tohutohu o te whakahaere i te whakamātautau. Ngā RAT kua whakaaetia me te whakamahi i aua mea | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Ina kitea kei te pāngia koe, ā, i rere mai koe, e whakahau ana mātou ki te pūrongo i ō hua ki a mātou. Mēnā he tau Tauine Hauora ā-Motu (NHI) tāu, ka taea e koe te pūrongo i ō hua mā My Covid Record. Pūrongotia he hua whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere | My Covid Record (external link) Mēnā kāore ō tau NHI, pūrongotia tō hua pānga ki te mate, mā te waea ki: 0800 432 010 mēnā kei te waea koe i tētahi nama waea o Aotearoa +64 9 954 6118 mēnā kei te waea koe mai i tētahi nama ā-ao. He mea nui te pūrongo i ō hua. Mā tēnei e āwhina i a mātou kia mārama ki te horapatanga o te Kowheori-19, me te aroturuki i ngā tūpono momo kowheori hou. Mēnā ka tohu ake te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere kei te pāngia koe, i roto i te 7 rā o tō taenga mai ki Aotearoa mā te rererangi, me whaiwhai ake ki te whakamātautau PCR mai i tētahi pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori, tētahi kaiwhakarato hauora rānei. Whakamōhiotia atu te kaiwhakahaere i te whakamātautau, i tāwāhi koe i ngā rangi tata. Te whakahaere i tētahi whakamātautau PCR | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) E tūtohu ana mātou kia noho taratahi koe mō te 5 rā, ahakoa he ngāwari noa ō tohumate, tīmata ki te Rā 0, arā, te rā i tīmata ō tohumate, i pāngia rānei koe e te mate, te mea tuatahi o ērā. Ngā whakaritenga noho taratahi mā ngā tāngata hāereere | COVID-29 Health Hub (external link) Ki te hiahia tohutohu hauora koe ki te whakahaere i ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waea ki Healthline. Ka taea e koe te tono ratonga whakawhiti reo. +64 9 358 5453 — mai i tētahi SIM ā-ao 0800 358 5453 - mai i tētahi nama waea o Aotearoa E tino whakahau ana mātou kia whai inihua hāereere ngā manuhiri o tāwāhi, me te titiro mēnā ka uru te haumanutanga mō te KOWHEORI-19. He whakaritenga hauora whakautuutu tā Aotearoa ki Ahitereiria me Piritānia. Ka taea e ngā kirirarau me ngā kainoho tūturu o Ahitereiria me te UK te whiwhi i te tiakanga hauora tūmatanui ōrite ki ō te hunga o Aotearoa. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā rongoā patu huaketo koreutu o te KOWHEORI-19 mō te hunga e māraurau ana. Ngā whakaritenga hauora whakautuutu me ngā mea ka whai wāhi ake | Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand (external link) Last updated: 24 August 2023 at 1:26 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi e whakahau ana mātau kia tirotirohia e koe ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe. Me tirotiro: Ko te whakarite a te maha o ngā whenua me noho taratahi te hunga haere i te taenga atu, me whakaatu tohu o te werohanga, he tohu rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e whakaatu ana kāore koe i te mate i mua i te haerenga. Rēhita me SafeTravel. Mēnā ka rēhita koe, ka whiwhi whakamōhiotanga koe mō ngā huringa ki ngā tohutohu haerenga. Rēhitatia ō taipitopito ki a SafeTravel (external link) Kua āhei ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau kua whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa ki te tono ki tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. He 1-2 meneti te roa mō te tono i tō tiwhikete, ā, ka īmērahia atu koe i roto i te 24 haora. Ka taea e koe te tiki tō Tiwhikete mā Taku Pūkete Kowheori. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te uru ki tēnei ratonga, waea atu ki 0800 222 478 . Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E herea ana e ētahi whenua kia whakaaturia he otinga whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 kāore koe i te mate i mua i tō wehenga. Tirohia ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe mā te whakapā atu ki tō rātau kāinga māngai kāwanatanga, whare māngai kāwanatanga rānei i Aotearoa. Ētahi atu tohutohu haerenga atu anō kei Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Last updated: 4 October 2022 at 3:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. E haere ai koe ki Aotearoa, me tutuki i a koe ētahi herenga. Ko ngā hipanga i raro nei e whakamārama ana he aha ngā taunakitanga hei whakaatu māhau, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. Kua kore e hiahiatia tētahi whakamātautau i mua o te haerenga, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, me whakamātautau rānei i tō taenga ki Aotearoa. He tere te panoni o ngā tautuhinga - mā Immigration New Zealand e tuku i ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Te haere ki Aotearoa | Immigration New Zealand (external link) E uru ai koe ki Aotearoa, me ea i a koe ngā herenga manene katoa. I mua i te haere, me tiro kei te mana tonu tō uruwhenua. Tērā pea me tono koe i tētahi New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Tirohia mēnā e māraurau ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Me tono i tētahi NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Tāpuitia tō haerenga ki Aotearoa. Tirohia te kaupapahere a te kaikawe mō te kano ārai mate, ngā whakakorenga me ngā whakahokinga moni, hua noa kei mate koe ki te panoni i ō maheretanga. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te hoko i te inihua haere, hua noa kei pāngia ō whakaritenga hāereere. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te tāpui i te wāhi noho hāngai mō te noho taratahi i te kāinga, ina hua ake tērā āhuatanga. Mēnā e hāngai ana, me whiwhi koe i tō: Mā te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa e manatoko i tō hītori hāereere me ētahi atu herenga uru mai. Ka āhua roa pea te wā, i a koe e whakawhiti ana mā roto i te taunga rererangi. Last updated: 11 August 2023 at 2:30 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Additional COVID-19 booster doses continue to be available for those who are eligible. Providing antiviral medicine for COVID-19 to eligible people will become the key focus of primary and community pharmacy care from 1 October. Effective from 12:01am Tuesday 15 August, 7 day mandatory isolation, wearing of face masks for visitors to healthcare facilities removed. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow Unite against COVID-19 and Te Whatu Ora – Health New Zealand on social media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. Last updated: 14 September 2022 at 6:06 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Data and statistics available: Last updated 11 December 2023 Te Whatu Ora collects data about cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. This includes: Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Te Whatu Ora website for more case data. COVID-19 current cases | Te Whatu Ora (external link) 336 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 999 New case 7-day rolling average 7,880 New cases reported in the last week 49 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) You can filter case numbers by health districts, age groups, and first infections and reinfections. COVID-19 data charts | Health Hub (external link) Last updated 11 December 2023 Te Whatu Ora reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and deaths related to COVID-19. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Te Whatu Ora website for more data. COVID-19 case demographics | Te Whatu Ora (external link) 4 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 3,596 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) Last updated 11 December 2023 Te Whatu ora collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Te Whatu Ora website for more testing data. Testing for COVID-19 | Te Whatu Ora (external link) 1,100 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 5,831 PCR tests in the past week Last updated 13 October 2023 Te Whatu Ora collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Wednesday . Visit the Te Whatu Ora website for more vaccine data. COVID-19 vaccine data | Te Whatu Ora (external link) The dataset used to calculate the percentage of people vaccinated changed in August 2022. Find out more on the Te Whatu Ora website: Updated health user information informs COVID-19 vaccination programme | Te Whatu Ora (external link) 72.9% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 90.1% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 271,738 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 158,339 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 2,773,780 Booster first doses 984,838 Booster second doses 140 Infant first dose (age 6 months to 4 years) 114 Infant second dose (age 6 months to 4 years) Check our map to find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | Stats NZ (external link) If data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and, for researchers, the ability to request detailed COVID-19 data. COVID-19 data resources | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 12 July 2023 at 1:00 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated. This map shows the vaccination rates for areas around New Zealand. Type your address to see the proportion of people who have received their first, second or booster dose in your area, compared with the national average. Age group Dose Ethnicity Map areas Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Map key  Map key Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 14 March 2022 at 2:52 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1-10 of 1086 updates 04 Oct 2023 Additional COVID-19 booster doses continue to be available for those who are eligible. 29 Sept 2023 Providing antiviral medicine for COVID-19 to eligible people will become the key focus of primary and community pharmacy care from 1 October. 14 Aug 2023 Effective from 12:01am Tuesday 15 August, 7 day mandatory isolation, wearing of face masks for visitors to healthcare facilities removed. 23 Feb 2023 From 1 March the Pfizer bivalent vaccine will replace the existing booster. From 1 April, an additional booster will be available for those eligible. 23 Feb 2023 Watch the COVID-19 bivalent vaccine rollout announcement. 08 Feb 2023 Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years who are immunocompromised or have multiple or complex health conditions are eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine. 08 Feb 2023 From 13 February, you may need to pay for COVID-19-related visits to your healthcare provider. 04 Jan 2023 The Government is reiterating advice to international travellers to test if they have COVID-19 symptoms when they arrive and to take free RATs at the airport. 19 Dec 2022 Make sure you’re prepared if you get COVID-19 while on holiday so we can all enjoy a safe-as summer. 16 Dec 2022 Medsafe has given provisional approval. The vaccine for immunocompromised children under 5 years old will be available in February. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident. Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453. Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Te Whatu Ora is reminding everyone that additional COVID-19 booster doses continue to be available for those who are eligible. This includes people aged 30 and older, and those aged 16 to 29 who are pregnant or are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. If you are eligible, you can receive an additional COVID-19 booster dose, regardless of how many doses you had previously. You need to wait six months between doses, and it’s recommended that you wait six months after your last COVID-19 infection. For those who are already up to date with COVID-19 boosters, the people who are most likely to benefit from another COVID-19 booster in late 2023 include: You can book an appointment by visiting bookmyvaccine.nz (external link) , checking Healthpoint (external link) for vaccination locations near you, or by talking to your doctor, pharmacist or hauora provider. Last updated: 4 October 2023 at 5:01 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Government is removing the remaining COVID-19 public health requirements, effective from 12:01am tomorrow, Minister of Health Dr Ayesha Verrall announced today. While fluctuations from week to week are expected, overall COVID-19 case rates, wastewater levels and hospitalisations have been trending downwards since the beginning of June and over the past month reported COVID-19 cases have hit their lowest since February 2022. Ayesha Verrall says the public health risk from COVID-19 is now considered low compared to other stages of the pandemic and it’s safe to remove the final requirements. “While our case numbers will continue to fluctuate, we have not seen the dramatic peaks that characterised COVID-19 rates last year. Covid has put considerably less pressure on the health system this winter and other illnesses have been better planned for and managed. “This, paired with the population’s immunity levels, means Cabinet and I consider we’re positioned to safely remove the remaining COVID-19 requirements. “We’ve only reached this point thanks to the hard work and care New Zealanders have taken over the course of the pandemic. “And while not mandated, the Ministry of Health guidance is to stay at home for five days if you’re unwell or have tested positive for COVID-19,” Ayesha Verrall said. COVID-19 accounted for 2.2% of hospital admissions this morning and New Zealand has now likely passed the winter influenza peak. “It has been a long road, however thanks to lots of hard work, New Zealand’s COVID-19 approach has moved from an emergency response to sustainable long-term management. “Mask wearing remains an important way we can prevent the spread of respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19, in health and disability care settings. COVID-19 changed the world. It was an unknown to virtually all of us. I appreciate from the top of the North Island to the bottom of the South the efforts Kiwis took to keep themselves and their community safe,” said Ayesha Verrall. Last updated: 14 August 2023 at 4:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Two thirds of New Zealanders are now eligible for their booster, as new mask requirements come in to help keep people safe. If you got your second vaccination at least 3 months ago, you can walk-in or book to get your booster from today. There is plenty of capacity to get vaccinated this weekend and throughout February, wherever you are in the country. This is the best thing you can do to protect yourselves and your whānau as we prepare for Omicron. Get boosted, and wear a mask when you cannot distance from others. We will have a much better chance of facing the virus if we are well prepared. From 11:59pm last night (3 February) medical type masks became mandatory for those people who fall under a vaccine mandate and are in public-facing roles at work. For everyone else, masks are still mandatory on flights, public transport, in taxis, retail, public facilities, and in education for Year 4 and up. They are also now mandatory in close proximity businesses, food and drink businesses, at public events and gatherings. Masks can no longer be a t-shirt, bandana or scarf. It needs to cover your mouth and nose, and attach with ear or head loops. Ensuring you have the right mask, and that it is worn properly, will improve the overall effectiveness of wearing them and help reduce transmission of COVID-19, including Omicron. We are now looking to the next stages of our response to COVID-19 and Reconnecting New Zealanders to the world. We are preparing for the virus in our communities by putting measures in place to tackle it head on. Our high vaccination rates and climbing booster rate is our best defence from getting very sick from the virus, while masks help us to reduce the likelihood of passing it on to others or picking it up. These measures and continued good hygiene practices, alongside our phased plan to take on Omicron, will help keep our supply chains operating, economy ticking, people in work and kids in school. Last updated: 4 February 2022 at 12:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. If you are at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19 you will still get free healthcare. With the Omicron variant circulating, most people can recover at home. This is due to very high vaccination levels and widespread natural immunity. Additionally, with easy access to testing and self-isolation, we can focus on those who are more vulnerable. If you are at higher risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19, you are still eligible for free healthcare from your doctor. This protects those who are most at risk of getting very ill from COVID-19, including: High-risk medical conditions Who can get antivirals If you are isolating at home, you should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 if you need advice or guidance on managing your symptoms. You can also contact your local pharmacist or your healthcare provider if you need to see someone. If you require hospital-level care, it remains free. If you have COVID-19 Free rapid antigen tests (RATs) are available for everyone from participating collection centres. How to get a RAT Vaccinations are free and available at health providers and pharmacies. COVID-19 vaccines The best ways to continue to protect yourself and others are: Last updated: 27 February 2023 at 3:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Public Health Agency Deputy Director-General Dr Andrew Old says thanks to lower levels of community transmission early in the pandemic and high vaccination rates, New Zealand has had a lower rate of deaths from COVID-19 since the start of the pandemic compared to many countries. Most people that test positive for COVID-19 will experience a mild to moderate illness and be able to self-care at home before making a full recovery. ‘But sadly, despite that, more than 2000 people have died from COVID-19, either as an underlying or contributing cause, and we remain committed to ensuring those most at risk of death from COVID-19 are prioritised in our response.’ As part of this, Te Manatū Hauora Ministry of Health has examined COVID-19 attributed deaths to better identify greatest risk factors for COVID-19 and help establish how these risks can be reduced. This analysis is available on the Ministry’s website: COVID-19 Mortality in Aotearoa New Zealand: Inequities in Risk | Ministry of Health (external link) The analysis examined 1,797 COVID-19 deaths between 1 January and 26 August 2022, which had been attributed to COVID-19. This included: It supports that, as well as age being a strong risk for death from COVID-19, there is an excess risk for Māori and Pacific Peoples, people who are unvaccinated, those in higher deprivation and those with pre-existing health conditions. The analysis found: ‘This analysis shows that being up to date with your vaccinations not only helps protect yourself and your loved ones from severe disease, but it could save your life.’ However, it also shows the burden of COVID-19 has fallen unevenly across New Zealand. Some of this excess risk for Māori and Pacific people can be explained by higher rates of socio-economic deprivation, pre-existing conditions, and lower vaccination rates. Inequities in vaccination rates alone accounted for around a quarter of the excess risk for Māori and Pacific peoples. However, even controlling for these factors, the analysis shows Māori and Pacific people are still at a significantly higher risk of death from COVID-19. ‘Unfortunately, this does reflect broader long-standing health inequities for Māori and Pacific, with poorer health access and outcomes across many measures. It is also similar to COVID-19 experience in many countries, including Australia, the United States and United Kingdom, where already vulnerable communities have been disproportionately impacted by COVID-19.’ ‘These findings are not unexpected and our COVID-19 response throughout has been informed by understanding that the communities with the poorest health are also the most at risk from COVID-19.' Protecting Māori and Pacific people is an integral part of the ongoing COVID-19 response. The Ministry has always taken a collaborative and comprehensive approach, engaging at multiple levels to support Māori and Pacific communities to stay safe. We continue to do this because we recognise the ongoing, intergenerational and inequitable vulnerability of these communities. Te Manatū Hauora, Te Whatu Ora, and Te Aka Whai Ora will continue to engage with Māori through the National Iwi Chairs Forum, Māori health providers, community groups, and other organisations to inform the overall COVID-19 response, and ensure it promotes equitable outcomes for Māori. Steps being taken to better protect vulnerable groups as part of the COVID-19 response include: Last updated: 4 October 2022 at 4:33 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There were 41,077 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of: To date, 93% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 86% are fully vaccinated. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 1 December 2021 at 3:48 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Watch the COVID-19 media conference held by government officials and ministers at 4pm. Speakers: Transcript of the 4pm media conference The COVID-19 media conference was held at 10:30am. Speakers: Transcript of the 10:30am media conference Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Last updated: 12 September 2022 at 7:27 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference here. Today we are reporting 9,495 community cases, 551 hospitalisations and 15 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, with today's seven-day rolling average at 9,288 – last Wednesday it was 12,307. The number of reported community cases is expected to continue to fluctuate day to day but the overall trend remains an overall reduction in reported cases. There are three actions that everyone can do to help protect themselves and others. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 15 people with COVID-19. These deaths all occurred over the past eight days, including 11 in the past two days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 531 and the seven-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, one was from Northland, four from the Auckland region, one from Waikato, one from Bay of Plenty, one from Lakes DHB area, two from MidCentral, three from Nelson Marlborough, and two from Canterbury. One person was aged in their 40s, two in their 50s, two in their 60s, four in their 70s, five in their 80s, and one over 90. Eight were female and seven were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 11 May 2022 at 12:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference with ministers was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference.  Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the Prime Minister's 5:30pm media conference [PDF, 275 KB] (external link) The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 14 August 1pm media conference [PDF, 194 KB] (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 15 August media conference [PDF, 178 KB] (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4:20pm. Speaker: Last updated: 17 December 2021 at 2:41 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 12pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference here. Last updated: 16 February 2022 at 11:13 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12:20pm. Speakers: Last updated: 16 November 2022 at 4:04 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12pm. Speakers: Dr Andrew Old, Deputy-Director General and head of the Public Health Agency Dr Pete Watson, Interim National Medical Director, Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 4,489 community cases and 496 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,975 – last Wednesday, it was 4,938. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 541 – last Wednesday, it was 630. There are now a total of 1,794 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 12. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 17 August 2022 at 3:42 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12 noon. Speakers: Last updated: 16 November 2022 at 4:02 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 11am. Speakers: Last updated: 23 February 2023 at 11:04 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 12 noon. Speakers: Watch livestream here. Last updated: 24 February 2022 at 11:51 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12pm. Speakers: Dr Andrew Old, Deputy-Director General and head of the Public Health Agency Dr Pete Watson, Interim National Medical Director, Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 1,793 community cases and 260 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 1,655. Last Wednesday, it was 2,122. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 263. Last Tuesday, it was 326. There are now a total of 1,939 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 6. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 7 September 2022 at 1:32 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers:  Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic light system, will be removed from 11:59pm tonight, Monday 12 September, so all New Zealanders can continue to move forward with certainty. It is time to safely turn the page on our COVID-19 management, and live without the extraordinary measures we have previously used. Today marks a milestone in our response. Finally, rather than feeling that COVID dictates what happens to us, our lives, and our futures, we take back control. For the first time in 2 years we can approach summer with the much-needed certainty New Zealanders and business need, helping to drive greater economic activity critical to our economic recovery. The most recent health advice now tells us that with the lowest cases and hospitalisations since February, our population well vaccinated, and expanded access to antiviral medicines, New Zealand is in a position to move forward. You will no longer be required by Government to wear a mask anywhere, except in healthcare settings like hospitals, GPs and aged residential care facilities. Some places, such as workplaces, special events, or marae may ask you to wear a mask, but this will be at their discretion and no longer a Government requirement. Please respect those who choose to keep wearing masks as a form of protection. All remaining Government vaccine mandates will end in 2 weeks on 26 September. It will now be an employer’s discretion as to whether they require their workforce to be vaccinated. Vaccination requirements for all travellers arriving into New Zealand including aircrew also ends, and the requirement to test on day 0/1 and 5/6 will now just be encouraged. Our 7-day isolation period for COVID cases will remain. However, the 7-day isolation period will now only be required for those who test positive for COVID-19. Their Household Contacts will only be asked to undertake a daily rapid antigen test  (RAT) test before going about their life as normal. In short, we now move on to a simple 2 requirements system of masks in healthcare settings and 7 days isolation for positive cases only. The Government has also made an additional purchase of 40,000 more antiviral medicine courses, expected to enter New Zealand in the next few days. We are giving greater access to antiviral medicines for New Zealanders, and have secured agreements that provide a significant boost to our supply for the long term. So now, anyone over the age of 65, and Māori and Pacific people over the age of 50, or anyone who meets Pharmac requirements, can access the treatment in the early stages of contracting the virus. This means more than double the number of New Zealanders will be able to access these medicines if they need them than previously. There is no question – thousands of lives have been saved by the efforts of Kiwis. Be it iwi and Māori health providers, Pacifica organisations, aged care providers, businesses or the sacrifices of New Zealanders separated from loved ones, everyone played a part. From Tuesday we will now move to weekly COVID-19 reporting, similar to Australia. The current rolling 7-day average of hospitalisations is 241, the lowest since February and down from 273 this time last week. There are 225 current hospitalisations. There have been a total of 1,950 deaths — a 7-day rolling average of 5. People visiting the following healthcare settings will be required to wear a mask: The requirement excludes counselling, mental health and addiction services. Wearing a face mask Last updated: 12 September 2022 at 4:58 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. From 9 February a version of the paediatric Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will be available for children aged 6 months to 4 years who are at higher risk of severe disease if they were to get COVID-19. The vaccine is an important addition to the suite of immunisations available to help protect children in Aotearoa. Immunisations are critically important to the health of our tamariki. Having access to a COVID-19 vaccine will provide protection to younger children who would otherwise be at risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. The vaccine contains a lower dose of mRNA that has been specially formulated for this age group and has been approved by Medsafe. It is also a 3-dose course, with the second dose given 3 weeks after the first, followed by a third dose at least 8 weeks after the second. Following Medsafe approval, the COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group (CV-TAG) recommended the vaccine be approved for use in children who are severely immunocompromised or who have complex or multiple health conditions which increase the risk of severe disease from COVID-19. From tomorrow parents and guardians of eligible children will be able to book a vaccine by: Vaccines will be available in selected locations across the country. The vaccine is available for children aged from 6 months to 4 years who have the following health conditions: Health conditions include: Children who are not in any of the high-risk categories have a low likelihood of severe illness from COVID-19 meaning they will not need, or be eligible for, the vaccine. CV-TAG will continue to review new information on COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines and will make further recommendations if necessary. You can find more detailed information on the eligibility criteria on the Starship website: Risk factors for COVID-19 in children | Starship (external link) Last updated: 8 February 2023 at 3:49 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Following provisional approval by Medsafe, the Director-General of Health has recommended, and Ministers have approved, the use of the paediatric Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine for children aged 6 months to 4 years who are at higher risk of severe disease if they were to catch COVID-19. It is anticipated that the vaccine will be available in February 2023. Eligibility will be limited to children who are severely immunocompromised, or who have complex and/or multiple health conditions which increase the risk of severe disease from COVID-19. This follows the Starship Child Health table of underlying comorbidities. This eligibility is based on advice from the COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group (CV-TAG). Starship Child Health table of underlying comorbidities (external link) The vaccine for this age group is an adapted version of the vaccine used for 5 to 11 year olds. The provisional approval is for 3 doses, with the second dose given 3 weeks after the first dose, followed by a third dose given at least 8 weeks after the second dose. CV-TAG does not currently recommend vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years who are not in these risk categories for severe COVID-19. These children have a very low likelihood of severe illness from COVID-19. “We continue to review the latest evidence from overseas to ensure our vaccination programme is based on the most up-to-date research and real-world experience,” said Dr Andrew Old, Deputy Director-General and head of the Public Health Agency. “While most children under 5 do not currently need COVID-19 vaccination, the advice from CV-TAG was clear that a smaller subset of children are at higher risk should they catch the disease, and that this vaccine will assist them,” said Dr Old. A further announcement will be made in early 2023 when timing of vaccine delivery is confirmed. When timing is confirmed, bookings for this vaccine will be available online on Book My Vaccine or by phoning Healthline. Last updated: 4 January 2023 at 5:43 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Providing antiviral medicine for COVID-19 to eligible people will become the key focus of primary and community pharmacy care from 1 October, ensuring people most at risk of serious outcomes from the virus receive the support they need. Most people who get COVID-19 have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover at home, while others at higher risk of serious outcomes can benefit significantly from antiviral medicine. The continued support with a focus on antiviral medicine reflects the transition to managing COVID-19 in the same way as other acute respiratory conditions. Antiviral medicine will be available in both primary care and community pharmacy for those who meet Pharmac's access criteria.  This supports those at higher risk of serious outcomes from COVID-19, including hospitalisation, free of charge. Emphasis is also being placed on the importance of people staying up to date with recommended COVID-19 vaccinations. “Having the latest COVID-19 vaccination or booster will help protect those most at risk from serious illness,” says Dr William Rainger, National Public Health Service, Te Whatu Ora. “We also recommend anyone testing positive, using a Rapid Antigen Test or RAT, to stay at home and isolate for 5 days and report the result through My Covid Record. “They should also wear a mask if they need to leave isolation for any reason, and not visit a healthcare location, except to access medical care, or where there may be people at higher risk. While no longer mandated, isolating and mask wearing remain important in preventing the spread of COVID-19, as well as other respiratory illnesses. “We are encouraging people to check the Pharmac website and ask their doctor, pharmacist or hauora provider if they think they, or someone in their whānau, may be eligible for free antiviral medicines.” People can get a prescription for antivirals from their doctor or hauora provider, and many pharmacies can supply antiviral medicine without a prescription. “The primary care and pharmacy sector has worked incredibly hard this year and shown us how well we can deliver antiviral medicines for COVID-19.  This has had a very positive impact and kept New Zealanders safe. We’d really like to thank those providing care and are pleased we can continue this support as we move into the summer of 2023 and next year,” says Dr Rainger. The new Model of Care, with its focus on those most at risk and providing antiviral medicine to those who are eligible, is expected to be in place until 29th February 2024, with funding being reviewed in December 2023 as part of the Half Year Financial Update.  Last updated: 2 October 2023 at 1:43 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database. Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. "Because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public, with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. I require the following people to do 2 things. This direction applies to the following people: If you need advice accessing financial assistance while you have been directed to isolate at home you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009." Given at Wellington at 1pm Wednesday 12 August 2020 Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director-General of Health Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Today is a significant milestone. The Government has been clear that the measures used to contain the spread of COVID-19 need to be proportionate to the risk of the virus, so it is appropriate to wind down many of the extraordinary powers that are no longer needed. What were once justified and served our country well should now be removed. With these changes, the legal framework matches the risk. The Government is also revoking the Epidemic Notice, which represents a move away from emergency arrangements to long-term management of the virus. Now, we can manage the virus with tools such as widened availability of antivirals, without having to resort to the most restrictive measures. Ministers have been reviewing the COVD-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 to ensure it is fit for purpose now that we are through the emergency response. The Government’s plan before the end of the year is to remove the most restrictive powers from the Act that are no longer required for the response, while still ensuring we can practically manage the ongoing impact of COVID-19. The Government will retain an ability to put in place case isolation periods and mask-wearing requirements and if necessary, requirements on travellers that can be called on if things change and we need to step up our response, but most other measures, including lockdowns, will be removed. Under the new plan, if other measures — beyond isolation periods, mask-wearing and traveller requirements — were needed the Government would need to pass new legislation to enable these. Keeping a basic legal framework in place provides sufficient time to consult on and design a replacement general pandemic piece of legislation that would set New Zealand in good stead for any future events, rather than having to start from scratch as we had to in 2020. When COVID arrived we had limited legislative tools to respond and new ones had to be created. It is critical that a legacy of this pandemic is a fit-for-purpose piece of pandemic legislation like we have for civil defence and natural disasters. Also ending on Thursday is the current requirement for travellers flying to New Zealand by air having to complete the online New Zealand Traveller Declaration (NZTD). Customs Minister Meka Whaitiri said the NZTD has been a vital tool in supporting the safe re-opening of our borders. The NZTD is an integral part of modernising Aotearoa’s border experience and the New Zealand Customs Service is working with border agencies to replace the paper arrival card with the online NZTD system by June 2023. Cabinet agreed yesterday to follow health advice and retain the 7-day isolation period for cases and mask-wearing requirements for visitors in certain healthcare settings for the time being. These core measures remain important, with indications of an upward trend in cases and growing concern about new Omicron subvariants that are driving waves of infection overseas. We have seen a slight uptick in cases and hospitalisations in the last couple of weeks. This was to be expected, and for now, these tools continue to prove effective in dampening the impact of the virus on the health system and in protecting the most vulnerable. The next review of these measures will be by the end of November 2022. Last updated: 18 October 2022 at 12:01 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The COVID-19 Vaccine Independent Safety Monitoring Board (the Board) has notified Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand of a fourth death in New Zealand in which a link to the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine could not be excluded. This is a tragic circumstance, and the Board expresses its sympathy to the individual’s whānau and friends. The Board first reviewed the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) report relating to the death in March 2022, and again in April 2022. However, at the time, there was insufficient information to determine the potential role of the vaccine in the death. The Board met again in November 2022 to reconsider the case after receiving further information, which showed that the individual had myocarditis at the time of death. The Board now considers that the development of myocarditis in this individual was possibly due to vaccination with the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. It is important to note this case is with the Coroner who is still investigating the cause of death. The Board considers that the circumstances of this case do not impact or change the known information on myocarditis, and the benefits of vaccination with the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine continue to greatly outweigh the risk of such rare side effects. Te Whatu Ora and the Board will not be commenting further on any details about this case and ask that the whānau’s privacy is respected during this difficult time. Myocarditis and pericarditis are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also rare and serious side effects of both the Pfizer and Novavax COVID-19 vaccine. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to vaccination generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away. They include: If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor as soon as possible — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you are concerned about your safety, call 111 . Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines Last updated: 14 December 2022 at 2:52 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Through the course of managing Omicron, we will be taking a phased approach. As case numbers grow, both testing and isolation approaches will change in response. Other countries have had to adapt their response in the middle of widespread outbreaks. We are setting out the changes ahead of large case numbers to give people a clearer idea of what to expect and what they need to do at each phase. Almost no country in the world has escaped Omicron and New Zealand is no exception. But where we can be an exception is how well we minimise the impact of the virus and protect our people from it. Vaccination remains our most effective weapon against the virus. The Omicron variant is markedly less severe than prior variants. One US report suggests the hospitalisation rate is 10 times less than the Delta variant. Its transmission and severity is also reduced by vaccination. So far, we have been focused on keeping Omicron out of the community for as long as possible while we roll out vaccinations to children and boosters for our adult population. Now that it is here, we expect case numbers to grow rapidly and put our health system under considerable pressure. Here are the three phases for Omicron: Phase One is where we are now, and we are doing what we have successfully done with Delta — taking a ‘stamp it out’ approach. Broadly speaking, that includes the same contact tracing, isolation, and request that everyone who is symptomatic be tested at a community testing station or at a primary health provider. If you are required to isolate, you will receive advice and — if needed — support to do so. At this phase you will need to isolate for 14 days if you are a case, and 10 days if you are contact. Our objective is to keep cases as low as possible for as long as possible to allow people to be boosted and children to be vaccinated without Omicron being widespread. In Phase Two, our objective is to slow the spread and protect our vulnerable communities. The system will be adjusted to focus much more on identifying those who are at greater risk of severe illness from Omicron — which will be a smaller percentage of cases. In Phase Two, we will reduce the isolation period for cases to 10 days and contacts to 7 days in line with best practice overseas. Household contacts will actively be managed by contact tracing services, with close contacts requiring a PCR test on day 5. A rapid escalation in case numbers and the resulting pressure on our resources will also require us to shift from identifying all infected individuals to being more targeted to those most at risk and those needed to keep the country going. Digital technology is used more in this phase. Cases will be notified via text message and be directed to an online self-investigation tool which will focus on high-risk exposures. Information will be provided via email and phone-based interviews will still take place where it’s required. Other forms of support will be available to those who need it. We will also change our current testing requirements for critical workers who are close contacts of cases. The prime focus of testing and tracing will be protecting this workforce and those most vulnerable to becoming severely unwell. Phase Two is where we will see more widespread use of the test to return-to-work policy where asymptomatic contacts in critical workforces can return a negative rapid antigen test in order to go to work. We will continue to manage testing of symptomatic people and Close Contacts with PCR testing but we will be enabling ‘test to return’ for asymptomatic critical workers who are close contacts of cases using rapid antigen tests (RATs). These are people like our healthcare workers and those working in food supply and infrastructure who are key to our response to COVID-19 and also in ensuring New Zealanders can continue to access the services they need. RATs will be integrated into our testing system at this phase and will work alongside PCR tests. They will be useful when the laboratories cannot provide PCR results within a useful time frame because of large volumes or because of transport delays. At Phase Three, when cases are in the thousands, we will make further changes to contact tracing. The definition of contacts will change to household and household like contacts only. This will mean the highest risk contacts will need to isolate. Supported self-service, rapid antigen testing for diagnosing COVID-19 and a self-service tool to enable identification of high-risk contacts will be significant to respond to the high volumes of Omicron cases. Digital technologies will continue to be utilised at this phase, and people will be supported to self-notify Close Contacts. There will be continued support for those members of our community who are not digitally enabled. The majority of people will be supported and be able to self-manage and isolate at home; and clinical care will focus on anyone with high needs. Clinical care and welfare support will be targeted based on need. Through the course of Phase Two and Three, we have a test to return regime that will apply to our critical workforces, to keep them going through the outbreak. Our plan is simple — get boosted, wear a mask, follow basic hygiene rules we’ve become so familiar with and reduce contact as much as is practical. We have slowed the virus from entering the community and given households and businesses time to prepare. As always, it’s what each and everyone one of us can do as individuals that will make a difference. Omicron is now in more than 80 countries around the world. By delaying its arrival here we’ve had the time to kick off boosters, vaccinations for children, and prepare. I encourage everyone to use the coming days to take steps at home and with your family, neighbours and community to make a plan. Resources to help you do this are on the Unite Against Covid-19 website. Be prepared for COVID-19 Last updated: 14 September 2022 at 11:16 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. This follows growing global concerns, including from the World Health Organisation (WHO) about the lack of reliable data on case numbers in China and their work to address this. In response, officials have done a public health risk assessment including working through scenarios of potential case numbers among travellers from China. This confirmed these visitors will not contribute significantly to our COVID-19 case numbers meaning entry restrictions are not required or justified. There is a minimal public health risk to New Zealand. We know that BF7 is the prevalent variant in China and that it has not caused significant outbreaks in other countries that, like New Zealand, have already been exposed to the BA5 variant. So public health measures are not required to protect New Zealanders. However, we do share the WHO’s concerns about the lack of information sharing and this is why we will be asking travellers arriving from China to help us gather more information. In the coming weeks, we will temporarily email a random sample of people who recently arrived from China to ask them to take a RAT test and share that information with health authorities. It is entirely voluntary and we had high uptake from international visitors when we used this method before. It is important to note that new COVID-19 variants can arise from across the world, not just from China, which is why we are reminding arrivals from all countries to take the free RATs at the airport and test if they develop symptoms once in New Zealand. Recommended testing when you arrive in New Zealand (external link) In the coming weeks, ESR scientists will also pilot testing of wastewater from international flights and assess the feasibility of this method replacing the targeted and temporary voluntary testing that we have announced today for travellers from China. Being up-to-date with COVID-19 vaccination, including your booster vaccination, continues to be your best protection against hospitalisation and severe disease. The current vaccines remain effective at reducing the risk of severe disease if you are infected with any of the variants currently circulating. New Zealand continues to welcome visitors and tourists, and we ask that everyone follows the current public health measures, including staying home if you are unwell and isolating if you test positive for COVID-19. Last updated: 4 January 2023 at 5:38 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. These guidelines are intended to provide clinical guidance on long COVID conditions in both children and adults in Aotearoa New Zealand. The guidelines are primarily for primary care practitioners, community and hospital clinicians, and will also be useful for individuals who have adults and children in their whānau with long COVID. “We know how COVID-19 has affected a large proportion of New Zealanders since the pandemic began in 2020,” says the Ministry’s Chief Allied Health Professions Officer Dr Martin Chadwick. “We are continuing to learn more about the effects of long COVID and these guidelines add to the information and resources we and other health agencies have been developing and making available for use since the beginning of the pandemic.” The guidelines: Long COVID factsheet for individuals and whānau [PDF, 205 KB] “We have had input, while creating these guidelines, from health professionals around the country in a number of fields, including researchers and people who’ve experienced COVID-19 and long COVID,” says Dr Chadwick. “It’s been important to gather all this expertise together to produce guidelines which will, we hope, be a useful tool for health professionals and people who have experienced these conditions and continue to live with them today. “In the meantime, we’ve been continuing to monitor the global and domestic situation, adding resources to our website and making available resources for primary care, allied health and nursing professionals. “As Chief Allied Health Professions Officer, I’ve also been regularly involved in webinars and other sessions to talk about long COVID to clinicians around the country, based on our research, evidence and experience to date. “We know COVID has been evolving, so too has long COVID. And because of that, these guidelines will evolve too. We will ensure they are updated when they need to be and will continue to reflect best practice. We will also continue to this make this material more accessible for all sectors of the population,” says Dr Chadwick. Long COVID guidelines | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 19 September 2022 at 1:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb. Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: Health responses include: “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand.  Māori and Pacific peoples aged 40 to 49 will be eligible for a second COVID-19 booster from Friday 18 November to provide additional protection from the virus. The decision by the Director-General of Health to expand second booster eligibility follows a recommendation from the Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group (CV-TAG). Lowering the eligible age to 40 years will help to address health inequity. Recent data reveals Māori and Pacific peoples remain at higher risk of severe outcomes from the virus. Over 63,000 people will immediately become eligible for the second COVID-19 booster. First and second boosters help to reduce the chance of more serious illness and hospitalisation, so we strongly recommend people book in for the vaccines they are eligible for. There is clear evidence that the burden from COVID-19 has fallen unevenly, and Māori and Pacific peoples are over-represented in COVID-19 hospitalisations with that risk increasing from the age of 40 years. The broader second booster access will help support higher vaccination rates among Māori and Pacific peoples and provide them with additional protection. Second boosters can be given at least 6 months after a first booster, and at least 3 months after a COVID-19 infection. Based on current advice, for those who are not at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a 2-dose primary course and a booster dose continue to provide very good and lasting protection from severe illness. By being more targeted in the rollout of the second booster, we can help reach the people that need it most. First and second booster vaccines are available through walk-in and booked appointments at Māori and Pacific providers, pharmacies, general practice and other locations across Aotearoa. Appointments can be booked at BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) or by calling the COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . We continue to review new information on COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines as it becomes available, and will make further updated recommendations if necessary. COVID-19 vaccines Last updated: 16 November 2022 at 4:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Group was established in March 2021 to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health and modelling. Professor Nikki Turner will replace Sir David Skegg as Chair, following his decision to step down from the Group, and Professor Patricia Priest and Associate Professor Matire Harwood have been appointed as members. Dr Ella Iosua, Professor David Murdoch and Dr Maia Breweton have been reappointed to the Group, while Professor Philip Hill has chosen not to continue for the extended term due to international work commitments. Professor Turner is a current member of the Group, and is a GP and academic specialising in immunisation, primary healthcare and preventative child health at the University of Auckland. Professor Turner is also the Medical Director of the Immunisation Advisory Centre. Professor Patricia Priest is an infectious disease expert at the University of Otago and was previously a member of the Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Group and is a current member of the COVID-19 Testing Technical Advisory Group. Associate Professor Harwood is a University of Auckland hauora Māori academic and GP and is also a member of the COVID-19 Vaccine Science and Technical Advisory Group. Minister for COVID-19 Response Dr Ayesha Verrall thanked Sir David for his stewardship of the Group since its establishment in March 2021, and Professor Hill for his tireless efforts supporting the COVID-19 response both as part of this group and the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. The appointments come as the Group’s terms of reference are updated and its operations are extended until December 2022. Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Last updated: 28 August 2022 at 3:00 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. All New Zealanders aged 30 and over will be able to access the new COVID-19 bivalent booster from April as part of the Government’s plan to keep Kiwis safe and take pressure off our health system. The new bivalent vaccine will replace the existing Pfizer booster and is considered likely to be more effective against Omicron subvariants. Bivalent vaccines work by combining 2 strains of a virus, which prompts the body to create antibodies against both strains, providing a greater level of protection. From 1 April, anyone 30 years or over will be eligible to receive the bivalent vaccine, as long as it has been at least 6 months since their last COVID-19 booster or positive COVID-19 test. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 will also be able to receive an additional booster, regardless of how many doses they have previously had. As well as broadening the criteria from April, from 1 March anyone currently eligible for a COVID-19 booster will be able to get the new bivalent vaccine. We know vaccination is the best protection against the virus, and these actions will provide added protection to a larger number of adult New Zealanders. The latest report from the Ministry of Health indicated 8,220 cases over the previous week so the virus is definitely still circulating out there. We are also planning for older New Zealanders and those most at risk of getting sick to get a flu jab at the same time as their COVID-19 booster. This will be part of a ‘one and done’ approach to help people stay well this winter. Because it may be a while since your previous boosters, now is a good time to check your records on My Covid Record. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) Vaccination against COVID-19 remains free. Getting boosted is important for your health and keeping you out of hospital this winter. Those currently eligible for the COVID-19 booster are encouraged to make a booking by visiting BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) or calling the COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). People who will become eligible for an additional booster from 1 April will be able to make a booking later in March. You can find more information about getting a booster on this website. Including who is currently eligible and how to get a booster. COVID-19 boosters From 1 April, anyone who has completed a primary course will be eligible to get another booster if you are: It will need to be at least 6 months since your last COVID-19 booster or a positive COVID-19 test. High-risk groups include: In all instances the additional booster dose can only be administered to eligible people who have completed a primary COVID-19 vaccination course, and whose most recent COVID-19 vaccine or positive COVID-19 test was at least 6 months ago, irrespective of how many prior booster doses that person has received. Last updated: 23 February 2023 at 2:16 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. There is still significant pressure on hospitals from winter illnesses, so our current measures have an ongoing role to play in reducing the number of COVID-19 cases and hospitalisations. The health system usually sees elevated pressure through September, so we would be hoping to see some sustained reductions in both cases and hospitalisations then. The good news is current modelling suggests COVID-19 cases may have peaked at around 11,000 cases per day mid-July. However, due to the current high levels of COVID-19 infection in the community, the corresponding burden on primary and hospital care systems and the highest levels of mortality seen in the outbreak so far, the COVID-19 Protection Framework setting has been kept the same. Remaining at Orange gives our health system the level of support needed to prevent a surge in demand for care. Maintaining our Orange setting a while longer supports the winter package of measures announced earlier in July, which included easier access to RATs and masks, expanded eligibility for antivirals and easier access to them for eligible people, and availability of the second booster to all people over 50. Our response to Omicron is moving in the right direction, but loosening settings before we are completely on top of it risk infections going up again. We just need to stay the course a little longer. There will be no changes to case isolation and household contact quarantine requirements. The next review setting will be in September. Under Orange, you are required to wear a mask in most indoor settings. You can visit cafes and bars, attend gatherings and events, and go to gyms and hairdressers — with no capacity limits or distancing requirements. Life at Orange Last updated: 22 August 2022 at 3:50 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Auckland moved to Alert Level 3 at 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August. Restrictions for Auckland at Alert Level 3 The rest of New Zealand will move to Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2 Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Institute of Environmental Science and Research (ESR) has confirmed it has sequenced New Zealand’s first case of Omicron subvariant BQ.1.1 in a person who tested positive for COVID-19. BQ1.1 was also detected in Te Waipounamu wastewater samples. The list of new subvariants appearing within New Zealand is lengthy and growing. Many of these new subvariants are identified by their mutations, many of which are shared across several subvariants, but it can take weeks or months to determine whether these mutations will allow a subvariant to out-compete others circulating in the community. At the early stage of a new variant being identified in New Zealand, it is difficult to predict whether and when it will become established in the community. So far, most Omicron variants have not demonstrated a change in severity of the disease. Early evidence overseas suggests the BQ.1.1 has a growth advantage relative to BA.5, the dominant variant currently circulating in New Zealand. In recent weeks in the Northern Hemisphere the colder weather, waning immunity, timing of last vaccinations and other behavioural factors, are likely to have contributed to an increase in BQ.1.1 cases. Evidence is still evolving as to how BQ.1.1 would compete against BA.5 in a New Zealand context and whether this could affect the level of COVID-19 circulating in the community in the coming months. Relative to many other parts of the world, New Zealand currently has a high level of immunity based on high vaccine uptake and widespread relatively recent infection predominantly with BA.2 and BA.4/5 variants. Vaccines are still expected to provide robust protection against severe disease, particularly in those who have received boosters. We encourage people to get their vaccine and booster doses when they fall due. The recent increase in cases nationally falls within our expected modelling of a slow rise in cases from now to the end of the year, although this may still change. We would expect regions to experience increases and decreases in COVID-19 cases at different times depending on a range of conditions. Local factors that could impact case numbers include levels of immunity in the community related to immunisation, previous infections, large events and indoor gatherings. At this stage, there is no evidence that BQ.1.1 is driving an increase in cases but Manatū Hauora — the Ministry of Health, and Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand, alongside ESR, are closely monitoring the development of COVID-19 subvariants overseas and in New Zealand, including BQ.1.1. The Ministry of Health carries out regular COVID-19 public health assessments and updates its advice to Government on appropriate public health measures based on the latest evidence. The next update on cases, hospitalisations, deaths and trends analysis will be published by the Ministry of Health on Monday 17 October. Last updated: 13 October 2022 at 5:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The latest surge in New Zealanders downloading the NZ COVID Tracer app has taken it over the 1 million mark of registered users. Keep track of where you've been The NZ COVID Tracer app gives us a strong head start in responding. It is not enough to rely on your memory or personal records. All businesses will need to display a QR code for the NZ COVID Trader app by 11:59am on 19 August. It is easy for businesses to download a QR code for their business using a fast new process. Get your QR code  Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery.  We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.  Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB] Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said. Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. A Royal Commission to prepare New Zealand for future pandemics through lessons learned from COVID-19 has been announced. Every country in the world has grappled with COVID-19 and there was no playbook for managing it. It had been over 100 years since we experienced a pandemic of this scale, so it is critical we compile what worked and what we can learn from it should it ever happen again. New Zealand experienced fewer cases, hospitalisations and deaths than nearly any other country in the first 2 years of the pandemic but there has undoubtedly been a huge impact on New Zealanders both here and abroad. A Royal Commission of Inquiry is the highest form of public inquiry and is the right thing to do, given the COVID-19 emergency was the most significant threat to the health of New Zealanders and our economy since World War II. Today Cabinet approved the terms of reference. The Royal Commission has been asked to look at the overall response, including the economic response, identify what we can learn from it and how that can be applied to any future pandemic. It will be chaired by Australian-based epidemiologist Professor Tony Blakely, alongside 2 members, former Cabinet Minister Hon Hekia Parata and former Treasury Secretary John Whitehead, CNZM, KStJ. Each brings a unique set of skills, and importantly, are independent of the Government and its response. Professor Blakely’s understanding of public health is extensive. He has the knowledge and experience necessary to lead this work. Hekia Parata and John Whitehead will add expertise and bring useful perspectives on the economic response and the response for Māori. New Zealand’s COVID-19 response has been heavily examined, both internationally and nationally. So far 75 reviews have been carried out within New Zealand since 2020, generating a total of 1,639 recommendations. The Royal Commission will begin considering evidence from 1 February 2023 and conclude in mid-2024. A report will then be prepared which will help inform any future Government’s pandemic response. Find the Royal Commission terms of reference on the Beehive website: Royal Commission to draw lessons from pandemic response | Beehive (external link) Last updated: 5 December 2022 at 4:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. New Zealand’s settings will remain unchanged following a final review for the year. That includes the retention of 7-day mandatory isolation for positive cases, in order to break the chain of transmission and keep cases and hospitalisations at a manageable level. The Government continues to provide masks, rapid antigen tests (RATs) and vaccines free from thousands of locations around the country. RATs can be ordered from the online requestor site or over the phone, and masks and vaccines from your local pharmacy or through your GP. Request free RATs | Health Hub (external link) Ahead of summer, we are encouraging New Zealanders to take simple precautions to keep a lid on COVID-19 and ensure our hard-working health workers get the break they deserve. If you are eligible for a booster, get one now. If you haven’t had your first or second dose, it’s not too late. Getting boosted significantly reduces your chances of ending up in hospital needing care. Making sure you’re up to date with your vaccines should be the first thing on your to-do list before Christmas. We recently extended second booster eligibility to Māori and Pacific peoples aged 40 and over, if you’re now eligible then book in and get boosted before going to see whānau or heading away for the holidays. COVID-19 vaccine boosters Many people have been taking advantage of available antiviral medications, with 4000 doses being administered each week currently. We know this has been keeping people out of hospital and reduced the impact of COVID-19 on the health system. You can get antiviral medication if you’re eligible and test positive for COVID-19. For information and eligibility criteria speak to your GP or pharmacist. Free antiviral medicines to treat COVID-19 | Health Hub (external link) With many people travelling around the country over the coming weeks, it’s important that everyone plays their part. Get prepared now so we can all have safe-as summer. Last updated: 1 March 2023 at 10:49 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 2,066 community cases, 286 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 2,023. Last Thursday it was 3,061. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 319. Last Wednesday it was 416. There are now a total of 1,908 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 7. This update is provided each Thursday. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)  Last updated: 1 September 2022 at 1:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 4,818 community cases and 571 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,750. Last Thursday it was 6,142. There are now a total of 1,726 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 12. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 11 August 2022 at 1:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 4,126 community cases and 549 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,581. Last Friday it was 5,812. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 609. Last Friday it was 721. There is now a total of 1,733 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 12. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 12 August 2022 at 1:22 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 1,149 community cases and 225 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 1,480. Last Monday, it was 1,778. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 241. Last Monday, it was 273. There are now a total of 1,950 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 5. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 12 September 2022 at 2:00 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 1,941 community cases and 241 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 1,468. Last Tuesday, it was 1,719. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 236. Last Tuesday, it was 267. There are now a total of 1,962 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 4. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 14 September 2022 at 12:57 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 3,387 community cases and 536 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,230 — last Monday, it was 5,288. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 570 — last Monday, it was 660. There are now a total of 1,750 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 14. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 15 August 2022 at 1:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 4,811 community cases and 533 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,073 — last Tuesday, it was 5,120. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 556 — last Tuesday, it was 645. There are now a total of 1,782 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 13. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 18 August 2022 at 12:44 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 4,540 community cases and 473 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,928 – last Thursday, it was 4,750. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 527 – last Thursday, it was 617. There are now a total of 1,807 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 12. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 18 August 2022 at 1:11 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 3,805 community cases, 466 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,876 — last Friday it was 4,581. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 515 — last Friday, it was 609. There are now a total of 1,815 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 11. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 19 August 2022 at 1:14 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 1,800 community cases, 269 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 1,948. Last Friday it was 2,855. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 307. Last Friday it was 400. There are now a total of 1,910 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 6. Please note, the 1pm daily COVID-19 updates are now produced from Monday to Friday only, meaning there is no update on Saturday or Sunday. Some of the information, including the number of new community cases, is still updated on the Ministry of Health’s website daily. Monday’s COVID-19 update will also include some additional data covering the weekend. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 2 September 2022 at 1:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 2,706 community cases, 432 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,655 — last Monday, it was 4,230. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 472 — last Monday, it was 570. There are now a total of 1,824 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 10. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 22 August 2022 at 1:24 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 3,693 community cases and 402 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,496 — last Tuesday, it was 4,073. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 453 — last Tuesday, it was 556. There are now a total of 1,841 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 8. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 23 August 2022 at 1:18 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): Māori (percentage of eligible people): Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 8 cases in hospital: 24 new community cases: 47 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 23 January 2022 at 2:03 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 3,140 community cases and 373 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,303 — last Wednesday it was 3,975. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 436 — last Wednesday it was 541. There are now a total of 1,845 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 7. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 24 August 2022 at 1:06 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 2,780 community cases and 336 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,061 — last Thursday it was 3,928. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 416 — last Thursday it was 527. There are now a total of 1,845 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now seven. Please note: The daily 1pm COVID-19 update is being fine-tuned to reflect the level of data provided daily on the Ministry of Health website. The key changes are that the update will now be produced from Monday to Friday and information about the COVID-19 vaccine response, already provided on the website each day during the week, will no longer be included in the daily 1pm update. These changes will begin after tomorrow (Friday, 26 August 2022). Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 25 August 2022 at 1:07 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 2,318 community cases and 357 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 2,855 — last Friday, it was 3,876. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 400 — last Friday, it was 515. There are now a total of 1,865 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 7. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Please note, the 1pm daily COVID-19 update will now be produced from Monday to Friday, meaning that from tomorrow there will be no update on Saturday or Sunday. Some of this information, including the number of new community cases, will still be updated on the Ministry of Health’s website over the weekend. This Monday’s COVID-19 update will also include some additional data covering the weekend. Last updated: 26 August 2022 at 1:33 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 1,653 community cases, 341 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 2,425 — la st Monday it was 3,655. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 351 — last Monday it was 472. There are now a total of 1,869 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 6. In addition to the figures reported today, the Ministry of Health is also providing some testing and case figures reported on Saturday and Sunday, when the daily COVID-19 update is not published. Read the full update on today's cases and cases from the weekend | Ministry of Health (external link)  Last updated: 29 August 2022 at 1:14 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 2,464 community cases and 314 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 2,251 — last Tuesday it was 3,496. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 339 — last Tuesday it was 453. There are now a total of 1,884 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 6. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)  Last updated: 30 August 2022 at 1:06 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 2,244 community cases, 288 current hospitalisations. COVID-19 hospitalisations and ICU occupancy have not been at levels this low since February this year. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 2,122 — last Wednesday it was 3,303. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 326 — last Wednesday it was 436. There are now a total of 1,893 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 7. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)  Last updated: 31 August 2022 at 1:56 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Today we are reporting 10,205 community cases, 734 hospitalisations and 9 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, today's seven-day rolling average is 13,218, while the seven-day rolling average of cases as at last Monday was 16,102. A reminder that from 11:59pm tonight, there is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. As restrictions around the pass ease, it is important for people to continue to follow public health advice to stay at home, away from school or work if you’re feeling unwell. Another way to protect you and your whanau is to get vaccinated if you haven’t already done so. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and getting boosted is an important way people can protect themselves, their whanau and their friends from the virus. Please if you are due for a vaccination, whether it be a second shot or booster, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 9 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the past 3 days. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 405 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 20. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, one person was from the Auckland region, three from Waikato, two from Lakes, two from the Wellington region, and one from Southern. One person was in their 50s, one in their 60s, one in their 70s, two in their 80s, and four were over 90. Five were men and four were women. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 4 April 2022 at 1:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 1,296 community cases, 257 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 1,778. Last Monday, it was 2,425. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 273. Last Monday, it was 351. There are now a total of 1,915 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 6. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 5 September 2022 at 3:00 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 2,035 community cases, 273 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 1,719. Last Tuesday, it was 2,251. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 267. Last Tuesday, it was 339. There are now a total of 1,933 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 7. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 6 September 2022 at 1:24 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 4,006 community cases and 654 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 5,288. Last Monday it was 6,990. There are now a total of 1,638 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 14. COVID-19’s vaccination data is currently undergoing a technical update, which will mean some changes in reported vaccination rates. These will be routinely published from Wednesday (10 August), in line with our normal weekly reporting cycle. These changes are the result of Te Whatu Ora – Health New Zealand moving to using 2021 Health System User (HSU) data, replacing the 2020 HSU data that has been previously used. As a result, we will be adding a larger group of New Zealanders to the list of those who are eligible for COVID-19 vaccinations, as part of improvements to the vaccination programme. Moving to the 2021 HSU data will mean a technical decrease in reported vaccination rates overall because of the larger number of eligible New Zealanders being identified. However, they will make no difference to the total number of New Zealanders vaccinated, which remains the same and will continue to increase as more people are vaccinated. This decrease in the overall vaccine rate is because, while we have the same number of people vaccinated, we are now dividing that number by a larger group of eligible people. This larger group now includes people who have used health services during the 2021 calendar year, that were not captured in the 2020 HSU data. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 8 August 2022 at 1:08 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 1,653 community cases, 254 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 1,595. Last Thursday, it was 2,023. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 259. Last Tuesday, it was 319. There are now a total of 1,941 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 5. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 8 September 2022 at 1:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 5,169 community cases and 599 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,938. Last Wednesday it was 6,355. There are now a total of 1,705 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 15. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 10 August 2022 at 1:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 5,939 community cases and 634 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 5,120. Last Monday it was 6,683. There are now a total of 1,688 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 16. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 9 August 2022 at 1:40 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 1,483 community cases, 243 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 1,549. Last Friday, it was 1,948. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 255. Last Friday, it was 307. There are now a total of 1,944 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 5. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 9 September 2022 at 1:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. For the most up-to-date information about our managed isolation and quarantine facilities visit the managed isolation and quarantine website. Get information about:  New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. Last updated: 29 October 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz (external link) as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice. Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 11-20 of 1086 updates 14 Dec 2022 The development of myocarditis in this individual was possibly due to vaccination with the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 05 Dec 2022 A Royal Commission will prepare New Zealand for future pandemics through lessons learned from COVID-19. 16 Nov 2022 Broader second booster access will support higher vaccination rates among Māori and Pacific peoples and provide them with additional protection. 16 Nov 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 18 Oct 2022 The Government is narrowing the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act and removing the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. 13 Oct 2022 The Omicron subvariant BQ1.1 has been circulating in the Northern Hemisphere and has now been found in New Zealand. 30 Sept 2022 An analysis of deaths from COVID-19 in New Zealand shows being up to date with your vaccines is the single best way to reduce the risk of dying from COVID-19. 21 Sept 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 15 Sept 2022 The Ministry of Health has released long COVID guidelines for health professionals, individuals and those caring for people with long COVID. 13 Sept 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1041-1050 of 1086 updates 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1051-1060 of 1086 updates 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020  12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1061-1070 of 1086 updates 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1071-1080 of 1086 updates 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1081-1086 of 1086 updates 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 21-30 of 1086 updates 12 Sept 2022 The most recent health advice now tells us that with the lowest cases and hospitalisations since February, we are in a good position to move forward. 12 Sept 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 09 Sept 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Sept 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Sept 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Sept 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 06 Sept 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Sept 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Sept 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Sept 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 31-40 of 1086 updates 31 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Aug 2022 New appointments have been made to the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group as well as extending the term of the group until December. 26 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 41-50 of 1086 updates 18 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 16 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 New Zealand will remain at the Orange traffic light setting, while hospitalisations remain elevated and pressure on the health system continues through winter. 08 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 51-60 of 1086 updates 05 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 03 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Jul 2022 The same vaccination rules for passengers arriving by air will apply to arrivals on cruise ships and recreational vessels such as ocean-going yachts. 31 Jul 2022 New Zealand’s international border opens to all visitors, including from non-visa waiver countries, and international students from 11:59pm, 31 July 2022. 29 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. Additional COVID-19 booster doses continue to be available for those who are eligible. Providing antiviral medicine for COVID-19 to eligible people will become the key focus of primary and community pharmacy care from 1 October. Effective from 12:01am Tuesday 15 August, 7 day mandatory isolation, wearing of face masks for visitors to healthcare facilities removed. Last updated: 23 February 2023 at 11:05 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. We are here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have 2 simple rules for a safe social community: Comments and messages submitted to our social media pages may be used for reporting purposes. Last updated: 18 November 2022 at 10:20 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. What you need to know Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms, and what we know about Long COVID. Advice for people who are at higher risk of more severe illness if they get COVID-19. We all need to be prepared to self-isolate if we get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up habits such as wearing a face mask and staying home when sick. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. Emergency services operate at all traffic light settings. If you need urgent help in an emergency, call 111 immediately even if you and your household are isolating. This section contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people. Find the latest information and advice for whānau, hapū, and iwi Māori. Find the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities, including translations. Misinformation about COVID-19 works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. Last updated: 13 December 2022 at 12:15 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants and symptoms. Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Information about how long people with COVID-19 are likely to be infectious, and what we know about immunity from COVID-19. Wastewater testing helps track COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is a surveillance tool used alongside testing community and border cases. Last updated: 10 November 2022 at 12:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. How infectious someone is may depend on a range of factors, such as how sick they are and how their immune system responds to the virus. If you get COVID-19, you are likely to be infectious from 48 hours before the onset of symptoms until 24 hours after your symptoms have ended. Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious for up to 10 days. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. These people may still be infectious. Some people may test positive for COVID-19 after they have recovered and no longer have symptoms. They are unlikely to be infectious beyond 24 hours after their symptoms have ended. If you have COVID-19 When you get SARS-CoV2 — the virus that causes COVID-19 — your immune system kicks in and produces an immune response. Your immune system starts creating proteins called antibodies. These antibodies fight the virus. Antibodies can remember what a virus looks like, which means that your immune system can spot and target the virus if you get it again. The immune system then destroys the virus. This process is like what happens when your body encounters other common viruses, such as the flu. While our body can produce an immune response to SARS-CoV-2, we do not know how long this immunity lasts. Initial research shows that antibody responses can last for several months in some people. Getting a COVID-19 vaccine produces the same immune response without you getting the virus. Vaccines give your body a head start so when you are exposed to the virus, your body already knows how to fight it. COVID-19 vaccines It is possible to test for antibodies in the blood if a person has had COVID-19 before. This is an antibody or serology test. Antibody testing may be helpful for finding out whether someone has had COVID-19 in the past but it is not helpful for diagnosing new infections. This is because your body takes a few weeks to make antibodies after catching a virus. Antibody testing is not available publicly on request in New Zealand. It is only used in limited cases at the direction of a public health doctor. This is to support the investigation of possible new cases or to support patient management. Antibodies attack 2 different parts of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. They are: Your body produces 3 different types of antibodies, also called immunoglobulins, to work against the 2 parts of the virus. They are: These 3 antibodies can be detected within 1 to 3 weeks after you have COVID-19. IgM and IgG antibodies can be made at the same time. IgM and IgA antibodies decay more rapidly than IgG. We know that: As with other viral tests, antibody testing can have false-positive and false-negative results. These tests should only be used in appropriate situations and the results need to be interpreted carefully. The latest evidence shows that getting reinfected with COVID-19 can happen within a short period of time. Reinfection will become more likely as new variants spread in the community. If you get new COVID-19 symptoms and it has been more than 29 days since your previous infection, it is possible you have a new infection and should get a test. It is unclear how common reinfection is with COVID-19. We are monitoring international and national data and will update guidance as new evidence is available. If you have COVID-19 Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 11:38 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Symptoms can include one or more of the following: Less common symptoms may include: These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. If you get symptoms with COVID-19, you are likely to get them within 3 days of infection. But it could take up to 8 days after infection. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. Some people with COVID-19 can pass it on to others 1 or 2 days before showing symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a rapid antigen test (RAT) as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can be connected with any help and support you might need. For advice, call: How to get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 To further help reduce the spread of COVID-19 to others: If you do not have symptoms anymore and you feel well after your 5 days of isolation, you can return to your normal activities. Because you can remain infectious for up to 10 days, w e recommend you wear a mask if you need to: You should discuss your return to work with your employer or your child’s return to school with their school principal. They may require additional precautions. If you still feel unwell after isolating at home for 5 days, we recommend you stay home until you have recovered. What to do when your isolation ends If you are eligible, you do not need to pay for COVID-19-related medical costs or healthcare when you get COVID-19. If you develop long COVID and need further appointments, you will need to pay for your visits to your doctor as you normally would. This includes prescription dispensing fees. Eligible people include: High-risk medical conditions Who can get antivirals For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: If you have an underlying health condition or have symptoms of COVID-19 that are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should test with a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If i t is positive, you should stay at home and follow the same advice as for your first infection.  We recommended you isolate for at least 5 days, and follow the advice for people who have COVID-19. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why clean air and good ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off surfaces is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID Healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Healthy habits include handwashing and wearing a face mask in healthcare settings and crowded indoor places. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means if you have COVID-19, you are far less likely to: While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, this protection can decrease over time. Booster doses reduce the chance of serious illness and lower the risk of spreading COVID-19 to others. Get your vaccine booster Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 11:38 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Wastewater testing is a surveillance tool used to help track COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. We use it alongside community testing of people with COVID-19 symptoms. The Institute of Environmental Research and Science (ESR) collects wastewater samples for testing. Wastewater testing sites have a mixture of wastewater from toilets, sinks and drains of hundreds of thousands of people. They test these samples to see if it contains fragments of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. This allows for widescale testing for COVID-19 in the community at one time. If there are increasing levels of the virus in the wastewater, it suggests cases are growing in the community. Wastewater testing gives us an idea of transmission in the community that is not dependent on peoples' testing behaviour. Wastewater testing provides:  Wastewater is currently sampled from many sites around the country. ESR tests these samples for SARS-CoV-2, to estimate the amount of virus circulating in that area. ESR takes samples from fewer sites to check for variants of SARS-CoV-2. The frequency of sampling depends on: ESR provides a weekly wastewater surveillance report and dashboard to help you track potential COVID-19 risk in your area. COVID-19 wastewater surveillance | ESR (external link) Detecting SARS-CoV-2 in wastewater depends on: The more people in the area that are shedding the virus, the better the chance is of detecting it. Even if ESR find no virus in the wastewater, this does not mean there is no COVID-19 in the community. People may shed fragments of the virus into wastewater when they have an active COVID-19 infection. The amount of virus shed varies between people and over the course of a person’s infection and recovery. People tend to shed many times more virus while they are infectious, compared to later in their infection. Those who have recovered from COVID-19 and are no longer infectious may continue to shed small amounts for weeks after they recover. The levels of virus detected in wastewater tracked over time, tend to match with the number of active cases in the community. It is more accurate in larger populations than in smaller communities, which can have more variability. Wastewater testing can show increasing or decreasing trends in cases. Vaccines do not contain any of the live virus, so do not cause viral shedding and are not found as viral fragments in wastewater.  The levels of virus in the wastewater give us information on whether cases are increasing or decreasing. If the levels of virus in the wastewater increase, then likely cases in the community are growing. As cases grow, we encourage you to stay home if you are sick, get a test, and wear a mask in public indoor spaces. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19  There is no risk of infection from the viral fragments in wastewater. Last updated: 9 November 2022 at 2:15 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | World Health Organization (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The Ministry of Health provides updates on variants and has a framework to prepare and respond to any new variants of concern. COVID-19 variants | Ministry of Health (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. Compared to Delta, Omicron: Omicron, like other variants, continues to change. Variants and sub-variants in New Zealand include: Although new variants of Omicron continue to emerge, there does not appear to have been a change in the severity of COVID-19. New Zealand's public health settings to manage current Omicron variants are appropriate for its subvariants. Omicron variants | Ministry of Health (external link) To identify which variant a person has, there needs to be whole-genome sequencing from a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. We encourage people arriving from overseas to do rapid antigen tests (RATs). Those who test positive should have a follow-up PCR test to identify the variant. Healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Healthy habits include handwashing and wearing a face mask in healthcare settings and crowded indoor places. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means if you have COVID-19, you are far less likely to: While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, this protection can decrease over time. Booster doses reduce the chance of serious illness and lower the risk of spreading COVID-19 to others. Get your vaccine booster The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus suffer health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 People at higher risk of serious illness can get antiviral medicines. When taken early on in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you get better faster and stay out of hospital. Medicines to treat COVID-19 High rates of vaccination is our main tool to protect people and minimise the spread of COVID-19. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing helps monitor COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is a surveillance tool alongside testing community and border cases. COVID-19 wastewater testing The Institute of Environmental Science and Research (ESR) tests wastewater around the country. An interactive dashboard shares ESR’s wastewater science. It can help you track potential COVID-19 risk in your area. Wastewater testing results | Institute of Environmental Science and Research (external link) To monitor for new variants arriving from overseas, the Government uses: Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 11:38 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. I am looking for... The COVID-19 Healthline kaimahi support people with information and advice about COVID-19. This includes clinical advice about symptoms and non-clinical advice about testing locations. Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Interpreter services are available. You can ask to be anonymous when you call. Whakarongorau Aotearoa privacy statement — New Zealand Telehealth Services (external link) There may be support available for employers, employees and those who have lost their job or had their income reduced, or assistance to buy food. Financial support Last updated: 12 October 2023 at 8:47 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples, disabled people and youth. Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni, tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people. Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. Popular topics We aim to produce information in alternate formats as fast as possible. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille You may need a test if: If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 312 KB] You can collect free RATs. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. Order over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. You can also get free advice from the Disability Healthline. Call 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you have mobility or other accessibility challenges and are unable to leave your home to get to a collection site, you can arrange to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Report your positive or negative RAT result by phone or online. Reporting a result means you can get extra support if you need it while self-isolating. Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. You can order RATs for yourself or on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to confirm your order. Report your positive RAT result online or over the phone. If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with trusted, up-to-date information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so that you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . We recommend you isolate for 5 days. This means you should stay at home and try to avoid contact with people you live with. Start counting from Day 0. This is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive (whichever came first). Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 5 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. Advice for carers on supporting someone who has COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19. You can get a booster now if: If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Some people who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you the best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. Vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised | health.govt.nz (external link) A second booster is recommended for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. Find out if you are eligible for a second booster To book your vaccination or get advice: Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Information about the COVID-19 vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Call the COVID-19 disability helpline for free on 0800 11 12 13 or text 8988 . It is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It can help with: You can use the New Zealand Relay Service to make a call: New Zealand Relay Services (external link) If you test positive, let your support provider know that you have COVID-19 so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow appropriate infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | Ministry of Health (external link) If you need urgent support and your support worker or carer is unavailable, you can call the dedicated disability helpline on 0800 11 12 13 . Or you can text them on 8988 . This could be if: The 0800 11 12 13 service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, from 8am to 8pm. A person with experience or knowledge of disability will answer the call and assess the urgency of your situation and provide advice or assistance. After 8pm, calls will be answered by a trained member of the Healthline team. The call centre will work with you to determine what needs to happen, how urgent your situation is and if medical or other emergency services are needed. As always, if there is an emergency, or there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. If you need help with urgent costs, or have to take unpaid leave, you may be eligible for support from Work and Income: Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. We encourage you to wear one whenever you can. If you are taking a taxi or ride-share, you can ask the driver to wear a face mask. You can also put the windows down for ventilation. For some people, an impairment, disability, or physical or mental health condition can mean wearing a mask is not possible. If you have a legitimate reason that means wearing a face mask is not suitable, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can also request a card by calling 0800 11 12 13 or by texting 8988. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass   Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. We encourage you to wear one whenever you can. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. The COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) ended on 12 September. With case numbers low, it is safe to remove most COVID-19 rules. The information on this page has been updated. About the changes Last updated: 24 October 2023 at 10:08 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. If your support worker gets COVID-19, it is recommended they stay home and isolate for at least 5 days, even if they only have mild symptoms, starting at Day 0. Day 0 is the day their symptoms started or when they tested positive. If you have COVID-19 The disability support organisation they are from is responsible for finding a replacement. In some cases, they may only be able to provide essential services while your regular support worker recovers. Your support provider will check in with you about any changes. If you would prefer that a family member or friend support you instead, discuss this with your disability support organisation. If you usually get support from a family member or friend, or you individually contract support people, make a plan for alternate support in case they get COVID-19 and are unable to care for you until they are better. Options could include: Needs Assessment and Service Coordination services | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live in the same home as your carer, and they are well enough to continue providing care, they can do so. They will need appropriate infection prevention control and personal protective equipment. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) If you receive support in your home, it is important to have a support plan. This should include your important health information and care routines. If your regular carer becomes unwell and you need emergency care, this plan can be shared with the new carer. This means your care and support can continue safely. Your disability support provider can help you create a plan. You can also use the emergency care planning tools available on the Carers New Zealand website. Emergency care planning tools | carers.net.nz (external link) There are a few things to consider, specific to COVID-19: If you need urgent support and your support worker or carer is unavailable, you can call the dedicated COVID-19 disability helpline on 0800 11 12 13 . Or you can text them on 8988. This could be if: The service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Between 8am to 8pm a person with experience or knowledge of disability will answer the call and assess the urgency of your situation and provide advice or assistance. After 8pm, calls will be answered by a trained member of the Healthline team. The call centre will work with you to determine what needs to happen, how urgent your situation is and if medical or other emergency services are needed. As always, if there is an emergency, or there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. Last updated: 6 November 2023 at 10:17 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Most COVID-19 rules have ended, but we can choose how to keep whānau and others safe. One example is wearing a face mask around our kaumātua, māuiui and immunocompromised whānau. You must still: For information and advice for your whānau, see this Karawhiua factsheet in te reo Māori or English: Te noho haumaru i nga tikanga hou o te KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 255 KB] Staying safe with COVID-19 changes [PDF, 776 KB] Karawhiua is a by Māori, for Māori campaign to support whānau to respond to COVID-19. For trusted and up-to-date information about COVID-19, see the Karawhiua website: Karawhiua (external link) Your marae can choose to put their own tikanga in place to keep whānau safe. For example, marae and other social places such as churches may choose to ask people to wear a face mask. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Free wellbeing services and resources Funding and support are available. Find more information from Te Puni Kōkiri: Funding and support | Te Puni Kōkiri (external link) Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 11:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni, tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information in Pacific languages: Most COVID-19 rules have ended, but we can choose how to keep each other safe. For example, places such as churches may choose to ask people to wear a face mask. You must still: Free wellbeing services and resources It's time to dial up the talanoa, helping our youth to navigate COVID-19 conversations with their parents, family and peers. Let's Talanoa with Dr Lesina Nakhid-Schuster and Rokalani Lavea. The Ministry for Pacific Peoples has created an educational video about the Pfizer vaccine that is also available in 9 Pacific languages. When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. The vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 12 and over. It will help to protect Aotearoa from COVID-19. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Get your COVID-19 vaccination Make sure you get the latest news and updates from reliable sources. Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 11:27 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people. Popular topics For free health advice, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you need help with urgent costs you may be eligible for support from Work and Income: If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. Information about our response to COVID-19 is available in Large Print and audio. Large Print and audio You may need a test if: If you have a cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. You can collect free RATs. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. Order over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. You can also get free advice from Healthline — call 0800 358 5453 If you cannot leave your home, you may be able to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Report your positive or negative RAT result by phone or online. Reporting a result means you can get extra support if you need it while self-isolating. Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. Report your positive RAT result online or over the phone. If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with trusted, up-to-date information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . We recommend you isolate for 5 days. This means you should stay at home and try to avoid contact with people you live with. Start counting from Day 0. This is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive (whichever came first). Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 5 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. Find information on the Health Navigator website about keeping safe, testing and getting support. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19. You can get a second booster if you are at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19. This includes all people aged 50 or over. Learn more about getting a booster If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition To book your vaccination or get advice, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26. Some people who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you the best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. Vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive, tell your support provider so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 If you need help with urgent costs you may be eligible for support from Work and Income: Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. We encourage you to wear one whenever you can. If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. You still need to order through the Request free COVID-19 RAT kits website. Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. We encourage you to wear one whenever you can. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. Last updated: 24 October 2023 at 10:05 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help if you are not coping or have concerns for others. COVID-19 has had a significant impact on how we interact with others, go about our lives, our work, study and many other aspects of our lives. We know stress and uncertainty can have a significant impact on the mental wellbeing of people in New Zealand. It is normal to not feel all right all the time — it is understandable to feel sad, distressed, worried, confused, anxious or angry during this time. Everyone reacts differently to difficult events, and some may find this time more challenging than others. Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Here you can find information on tools to support your own and others’ mental wellbeing and where to get help if you need it. COVID-19 keeps throwing new challenges our way. Find support, tips and advice to help you look after your mental health on the All Sorts website. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Small Steps are digital tools to help you maintain wellness, find relief, or get help for yourself, friends or whānau. The Groov app helps you monitor, manage and improve your mental wellbeing. You can pick your own daily goals and track your progress. Designed for and with Aotearoa's young people, Headstrong includes the Aroha chatbot ⁠— your virtual wellbeing guide. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, the Mental Health Foundation has information on coping with mixed emotions and wellbeing tips for home isolation. Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines and support (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: Te Whare Tapa Whā | Mental Health Foundation (external link) During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has information and resources to stay safe online. You can also report online incidents or harmful content such as misinformation or scams. Misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines work against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. If anyone in your whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. If you find any illegal content online, you can make a complaint to the Department of Internal Affairs. Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 11:01 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and the vaccine work against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. Aotearoa New Zealand, just like most other nations, has been flooded with misinformation since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. Misinformation is false, inaccurate or misleading information that is mistakenly or accidently created or spread. It can cause harm if people start to believe it as true. There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. I f you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Last updated: 16 December 2021 at 4:37 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine from a number of trusted sources, including: Find answers to all your vaccine questions, including how safe it is and what side effects you might get, and watch videos about vaccines. COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Check out the health advice for you about COVID-19, vaccines, testing, how to take care of yourself and much more. COVID-19: Health advice for the public | Ministry of Health (external link) Find trusted information for you and your whānau on Karawhiua. It is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. Karawhiua (external link) When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. Watch videos to find out about the vaccination journey and how COVID-19 vaccines work. COVID-19 information | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) The Immunisation Advisory Centre (IMAC) provides New Zealanders with a local source of independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research regarding vaccine-preventable diseases and the benefits and risks of immunisation. Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) The World Health Organization works worldwide to promote health, keep the world safe, and serve the vulnerable. World Health Organization (external link) You may need to engage with someone or a group who are spreading false and misleading information within your community or online. It is easy to feel compelled to go and directly confront them. This is not the ideal approach and it may not always be obvious to them what information is not true or factual. Here are some tips on how you might address the situation: Download printed guidance for responding to false information. Guidance for responding to false information [PDF, 759 KB] There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 11:18 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. We can all help stop the spread of misinformation by reporting fake accounts, or pages and domains that repeatedly post or share misinformation. Most misinformation and disinformation is legal. And people have the right to express their opinion. But if you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: Report to Netsafe any online harms including bullying and harassment, misinformation and hate speech/extremism. Report harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link)  Scammers look for ways to trick people into sharing their personal or financial details. Scams and fraud exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for online scams. Report a scam — CERT NZ (external link) Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police on 105 . Call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link)  There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video Last updated: 21 April 2023 at 12:01 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. There is misinformation and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what it means. There are 3 kinds of misinformation: You might see all of them on social media, including memes, on websites, videos, and in publications, like pamphlets that arrive in your letterbox. They can cause harm because you might make decisions about your health based on the incorrect information that you read or hear. Often misinformation is not deliberately created to harm you. But it is really important that you do not share it, so that it does not spread. Harmful online content includes cyberbullying and inappropriate material, such as violent and sexual material that can cause emotional and physiological distress. Online bullying (also known as cyberbullying) occurs when someone uses digital technology to send, post or publish content intended to cause harm to another person. It can include: Netsafe describes distressing content as content that is hateful content, sexual material or illegal material (like age-restricted material or extreme violence). Offensive or illegal content may include topics, images or other information that could be prohibited in New Zealand. The content can also be upsetting to a young person when they discover it. It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. Netsafe has more information, advice and resources about how to stay safe online. Netsafe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Keep It Real Online has information for tamariki (children) and rangatahi (young people) about being safe online, and also has tools and resources for parents and caregivers. Keep It Real Online | keepitrealonline.govt.nz (external link) You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 11:14 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are those who: Our restrictions have eased, but we still need to keep up healthy habits to keep ourselves and our whānau safe. We have a relatively highly vaccinated population and most people know they can self-manage COVID-19 and access support if needed. This means we can slowly start to focus on returning to a normal way of life. For some people, the easing of restrictions will be stressful — especially if we have friends or whānau who are vulnerable. It is okay to feel scared or anxious as we adjust to the new settings. You can decide what additional measures suit you best. Let whānau, friends, neighbours and colleagues know what they can do to support you. If you are worried, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. Find a collection centre near you on the Healthpoint website, or by calling 0800 222 478 and choosing option 1. Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) (external link) Even if you have had COVID-19, you should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations you are eligible for. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. If you are at high risk of getting seriously ill if you do test positive for COVID-19 again, we recommend you talk to your doctor or health professional for advice on the best timing for your vaccinations. You may be able to receive your vaccination sooner. As restrictions ease, we encourage you to talk to your employer about flexible working arrangements. If you have been working from home for a long time, it can take a while to adjust back to working in an office or other workplace. Let your colleagues and employer know if there is something they can do to make working easier and safer for you. If you work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working. If your child is immunocompromised, or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk to their school or kura about whether changes can be made at their school. The best way to protect your tamariki is by getting them vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination advice for 5 to 11 year olds You can support friends and whānau by: If you are not working due to a medical condition, you may be eligible for support from Work and Income. Contact your local Work and Income office or visit their website. Work and Income (external link) Service provision will continue using existing contractors for manaaki support who best understand the needs of their communities. This will be for those in the community who need it and be provided at a time and place this support is required. COVID-19 support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 12:01 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Staying home if you are sick can stop the spread of COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a rapid antigen test (RAT) as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a RAT and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can be connected with any help and support you might need. It is also important to test before visiting people who are at higher risk and to not visit them if you have any symptoms, or if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 5 days. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. COVID-19 symptoms How to get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are a way we can protect ourselves and others. We recommend you wear a face mask when visiting healthcare services. They are also encouraged to be worn when in closed, crowded and confined spaces, with poor ventilation. A well–fitting face mask can help stop particles from spreading or being breathed in when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Non-valved respirator-type masks such as N95, KN95 or FFP2 masks also help prevent you from breathing in the virus. Wearing a face mask Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. Vaccination remains one of the best tools in the fight against COVID-19. Even if you have had COVID-19, getting a booster once enough time has passed gives you another layer of protection from the virus. Being up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations also helps protect people who are more at risk of becoming seriously ill from the virus and people who cannot be vaccinated such as babies and children under 5 years old. You should wait 6 months after testing positive before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 is in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Risk of infection spreading between people still remains in certain locations such as: You are not required to maintain physical distance from others. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people while you are out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Good ventilation helps remove COVID-19 virus particles in the air. We encourage you to let in fresh air every day, including after someone visits your home, shop or office. If you can, partly open a window about 5cm for most of the day. Or open windows for at least 15 minutes as often as possible, whenever it is practical to do so. If your windows do not open, check if your ventilation system filters (cleans) the air. Ventilation and COVID-19 Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash or sanitise your hands. Washing or sanitising your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash your hands often with soap and water for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. Using an alcohol-based hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. If using hand sanitiser, make sure you use enough product to cover your hands, rub it in and allow it to dry. You should wash or sanitise your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Either way you clean your hands, it will kill the COVID-19 virus by bursting its protective bubble. Keeping your hands clean also prevents other types of germs and viruses. This is especially important if you are visiting vulnerable people. Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use regular household cleaning products and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. Last updated: 14 September 2023 at 9:42 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. Find out when you should wear them, how to wear them safely, and how to get free face masks. Some healthcare facilities and certain areas within healthcare facilities may ask visitors to wear a face mask. This is to protect those at higher risk, for example patients receiving care in an intensive care unit or emergency department of a hospital. To protect those at higher risk, respect and follow the healthcare facilities policies. We recommend you wear a face mask when visiting healthcare services. Wearing a face mask is also encouraged when in closed, crowded and confined spaces, such as when travelling on public transport. Wearing a face mask helps prevent the spread of COVID-19 in 2 ways: Face masks help protect you and others around you, especially people who are at higher risk of getting very sick. This includes: You should find a good quality face mask that fits you well and is comfortable to wear. How to wear a face mask safely Masks remain free until 29 February 2024. You can get free face masks when you pick up free rapid antigen tests (RATs) from participating pharmacies and collection centres. This includes medical masks and P2/N95 masks for people at higher risk of getting very sick. When picking up masks, talk to the staff onsite about whether a medical or a P2/N95 mask is the best choice for you. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms to get free masks. Find a collection centre near you that offers free face masks:  Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. We recommend you wear one when visiting healthcare services, or in crowded, confined spaces. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. this will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. It should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. Face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. Find advice on wearing a face mask comfortably. You can easily make a fabric face mask. It should have 3 layers, with 1 layer of moisture-resistant fabric. It should have loops around your ears or head. Find guidance and information for businesses, including healthcare facilities, on the business.govt.nz website.    We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Last updated: 25 October 2023 at 4:50 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. If you cannot wear a face mask, you should keep up the healthy habits we know to keep you and others safe. They include: People at higher risk from COVID-19 Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 12:01 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand.  Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. Last updated: 22 July 2022 at 10:02 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: Make sure it is: Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: Use either: The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is well-fitting to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask.  Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, clean your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Dispose of used face masks in your general household rubbish bin. Do not put them in the recycling. Use either: How to put on and take off a medical face mask [PDF, 294 KB] How to put on and take off a P2/N95 face mask [PDF, 702 KB] How to make your medical face mask fit well [PDF, 146 KB] Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 12:01 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Some healthcare facilities and certain areas within healthcare facilities may ask visitors to wear a face mask. This is to protect those at higher risk, for example patients receiving care in an intensive care unit or emergency department of a hospital. To protect those at higher risk, respect and follow the healthcare facilities policies. Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. We recommend you wear a face mask when visiting healthcare service providers. This is especially important when visiting people who are at higher risk of becoming seriously unwell, like: Face masks are also very useful when in closed, crowded and confined spaces with poor ventilation. Spring and summer are the seasons when people come together socially more often, there are more large-scale public events, and people move around the country in bigger numbers. During this time of year, we encourage you to wear a face mask when on public transport, around crowds of people, and when you have close contact with someone else, such as during face-to-face conversations. To be effective, a face mask should: A face mask that is not worn correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely Wearing a face mask Different types of face masks provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask. You should choose a face mask that best fits you and suits your needs. There are several things you should think about when choosing a face mask for you. This includes:  Disposable face masks with ear loops or ties can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks. Especially when you are in a higher-risk indoor setting. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many medical masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: How to wear a face mask correctly Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection. The other layer, preferably a fabric mask, can help stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can soak them in warm, hot or boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear or no longer have a good fit, dispose of them in your general household rubbish bin. You can use a fabric face mask. The effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut-down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily after use, using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection when used correctly. For people who are at greater risk of severe illness from COVID-19, the use of a P2/N95 face mask may be a better choice for you. If you choose to wear this type of face mask, it is important to follow the manufacturer's instructions on how to mould these face masks to your face. You need to make sure there are no gaps and you have a tight seal against your face. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a tight seal around the face to provide better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. In healthcare settings, these face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ to make sure they have the right type of face mask that suits their face. Do not wash these face masks. These face masks have a special static charge that traps viruses. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for a few days between each use in a cool, dry place. If they no longer provide a tight seal around your face, or are dirty or damaged, then you should dispose of them in your general household rubbish bin. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. Children aged 5 or under are generally not recommended to wear a mask. Children between 6 and 11 years of age are encouraged to wear a mask at the discretion and supervision of their caregiver. Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit well These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. Last updated: 20 October 2023 at 9:43 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Some healthcare facilities and certain areas within healthcare facilities may ask visitors to wear a face mask. This is to protect those at higher risk, for example patients receiving care in an intensive care unit or emergency department of a hospital. To protect those at higher risk, respect and follow the healthcare facilities policies. Mask wearing remains an important way we can prevent the spread of COVID-19 and other respiratory illnesses in health and disability care settings. We recommend you wear a face mask when visiting the following healthcare service providers: When visiting these healthcare service providers and others, such as psychotherapy, counselling, mental health and addiction services, respect and follow their policies on mask wearing. Healthcare providers may: It is especially important to wear a face mask when visiting people who are at higher risk of becoming seriously unwell. This includes: If you are infectious and need to visit a healthcare provider to get medical care for yourself, a well-fitting face mask can stop infectious particles from spreading to others, protecting those around you and help to reduce their risk of being infected. It is also a good idea to wear a well-fitting face mask to help prevent you from breathing in infectious particles from others. Visitors to COVID-19 positive patients need to be aware of the risk to themselves and wear appropriate personal protective equipment. The healthcare facility will advise you on this. There are times when you should avoid visiting patients or residents of a healthcare facility, such as when you: COVID-19 symptoms If you have COVID-19 There may be compassionate situations were visiting a patient or resident needs to occur and this should be arranged with the healthcare facility. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, we recommend you isolate for at least 5 days, even if you only have mild symptoms. After leaving isolation, we recommend you wear a mask for up to 10 days if you need to: This is because some people are infectious for up to 10 days. Some healthcare facilities may continue to require all staff or visitors to wear masks regardless of whether there have recently had COVID-19. To protect those at higher risk, respect and follow the healthcare facilities policies. We encourage you to wear a face mask if you are: Spring and summer are the seasons when people come together socially more often. There are more large scale public events, and people move around the country in bigger numbers. During this time of year, we also encourage you to wear a face mask when: Some places may still ask you to wear a face mask. This is their decision and no longer a government requirement. Masks remain free until 29 February 2024. You can get free face masks when you pick up free rapid antigen tests (RATs) from participating pharmacies and collection centres. This includes medical masks and P2/N95 masks for people at higher risk of getting very sick. When picking up masks, talk to the staff onsite about whether a medical or a P2/N95 mask is the best choice for you. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms to get free masks. Find a collection centre near you that offers free face masks:  Face masks are unsuitable for some people. Advice for people who have difficulties wearing a face mask Last updated: 20 October 2023 at 9:39 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Google and Apple are ending technical support for the Bluetooth function of the NZ COVID Tracer app in September 2023. We have many digital initiatives underway, including contact tracing tools for future pandemics or infectious disease outbreaks, as features of other apps. Removing the app from service aligns with other countries' decisions to remove contact tracing apps. Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 8:43 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. COVID-19 mostly spreads by aerosols — small virus particles that can stay in the air for minutes to hours. Good ventilation helps remove virus particles in the air. How COVID-19 spreads You can reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19 by improving ventilation. If you test positive for COVID-19, we recommend you self-isolate at home and avoid contact with people in your household for at least 5 days, even if you only have mild symptoms. If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious for up to 10 days. So, it is important to keep the air in your room fresh. If you can, open windows on different sides of the room to help airflow. To stop virus particles spreading, reduce airflow from your room to other parts of your home: We encourage you to let in fresh air every day, including after someone visits your home. If you can, partly open a window about 5cm for most of the day. Or open windows for at least 15 minutes as often as possible, whenever it is practical to do so. Try 1 or more of these ways to remove stale air: When leaving windows or doors open for periods of time, consider the safety of others — especially disabled people, children and pets. Steamed-up windows can be a sign of low ventilation. Try 1 or more of these ways to refresh air without letting rooms get chilly or damp: You do not have to leave windows or doors open all the time. Heat pumps, air conditioners and ceiling fans do not refresh the air. Instead, they move around air already in a room. You will need to open doors or windows to remove stale air and let in fresh air. If you have a home ventilation system, check if it recycles air or filters air: Landlords must provide good ventilation. If you live in or own a rental property, check ventilation rules on the Tenancy Services website. Ventilation standard | Tenancy Services (external link) Virus particles can build up quickly in crowded places such as buses or trains. It helps to sit or stand close to the door as airflow will be better. Open a window on the bus if you can. Taxis and ride-share services often ask passengers to open windows. We encourage you to wear a face mask in closed, crowded, and confined places such as public transport. Wearing a face mask Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 12:01 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Most people who get COVID-19 should be able to manage their symptoms safely at home. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. Call 111 immediately if you or someone in your household: Tell them you or someone in your household has COVID-19 when you call, so the paramedics can care for you safely. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. If you need medical advice about your symptoms, or other health advice while you and your household are isolating, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Healthline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.    If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 12:45 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Looking for information in other languages? Information in 30+ languages Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. What you need to know Find detailed advice about managing your symptoms and what to do while you are self-isolating on the Ministry of Health's COVID-19 Health Hub. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. If you have been in contact with someone with COVID-19 you may be a Household Contact or a Close Contact. Find out what you need to do. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. What you can do when self-isolating, including reasons you are permitted to leave self-isolation. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery. Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 2:51 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Contact tracing notifies people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out what you need to do if you are a Household or Close Contact. You are a Household Contact if you live with, or spend a night with, someone who has COVID-19. We recommend you test daily for 5 days with a rapid antigen test. You are a Close Contact if you had contact with someone with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to isolate. If you test positive for COVID-19 you may get a text message with a link to the online contact tracing form. It lets you share details of where you have been and if you need support. We have removed the NZ COVID Tracer app. Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 12:03 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You are a Close Contact in the following situations: You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be notified by: You do not need to isolate if you are a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms for 10 days, and if you develop any, take a rapid antigen test (RAT). You should wear a face mask whenever you leave your home for the first 5 days following exposure, to help reduce the risk of infecting others. Wearing a face mask is important when: COVID-19 symptoms Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 12:03 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. You are a Household Contact if you: You are also a Household Contact if you do not normally share a residence with the person who has COVID-19, but spent a night together in the same room. For people travelling or holidaying around New Zealand, Household Contacts include people who share non-communal holiday accommodation such as a: If you get COVID-19 while travelling The following people may be Close Contacts, but not Household Contacts: Advice for Close Contacts If someone you live with tests positive for COVID-19, you do not need to isolate. You should test daily for 5 days with a rapid antigen test (RAT) from the day the person with COVID-19 tested positive. If any of your tests are positive, we recommend you isolate for 5 days. If you cannot test daily, we recommend you stay home for 5 days. How to get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 You should report the results of your RATs, whether they are positive or negative. You can do this online through My Covid Record or call 0800 222 478 . Log into My Covid Record (external link) You should avoid or minimise contact with the person who has COVID-19 during their isolation period. We recommend you wear a face mask if you leave your home during your 5 days of testing, to help reduce the risk of infecting others. Wearing a face mask is important when: Monitor for symptoms for 10 days from when the first person in your house tests positive. If you develop COVID-19 symptoms at any time, test and stay home until 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. If you test positive, we recommend you isolate for 5 days. For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) You do not need to restart daily testing if another person tests positive within the first person's recommended 5-day isolation period. If you had COVID-19 and it has been 28 days or fewer from your previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms), and someone in your household tests positive, you are not considered a Household Contact and you do not need to test. If it has been 29 days or more since you had COVID-19 and someone in your household tests positive, then you should test daily for 5 days. If you test positive, we recommend you isolate for 5 days. If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19  Last updated: 1 September 2023 at 11:02 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. You can use the COVID-19 contact tracing form if you test positive for COVID-19. The contact tracing form lets you share your: Sharing details of where you have been helps us quickly identify high-risk locations. This is so we can support and protect those most vulnerable in our community. Te Whatu Ora stores this information securely. We will only use it for contact tracing purposes and to support your health needs. We only share information with agencies who are helping with this work. For most people, filling out this form should only take 5 to 10 minutes. If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 11 77 88 . If you test positive for COVID-19, you may get a text message with a link and access code to the contact tracing form. The text message will be from 2328 or 2648. Once you start the online form, you should continue to complete it on the same device and browser. Please complete your submission in 1 sitting to avoid losing any of your data. You will need to provide us with: Let us know if you are: Tell us if you have been experiencing any COVID-19 symptoms and when they started. Take note of your isolation timeline the form provides. We recommend isolating for 5 days. This includes the date you can leave isolation if you are feeling well. Day 0 is the day you tested positive or the day your symptoms started, whichever came first. After completing 5 days recommended isolation and you feel well, you can return to your normal activities. If you are still feel unwell, we recommend you stay home until you have recovered. Tell us if you have been at any high-risk locations during your infectious period. Contact tracers focus on these locations to reduce the spread in vulnerable communities. You will find a list of high-risk locations in the form. If you have been to 1 or more, we ask you to share more information about them. This includes: Please also tell your Close Contacts that you have COVID-19. These are people you have been in contact with but do not live with, such as people you work with or friends. At the end of the form, you can review and submit your information. You can add more information to the form for up to 72 hours from when you received the text message. If you revisit the form, your information will re-appear, so you do not need to provide it again. Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 2:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. We have removed the NZ COVID Tracer app. It is no longer available from Google Play and Apple store. Google and Apple are ending technical support for the Bluetooth function of the NZ COVID Tracer app in September 2023. We have many digital initiatives underway, including contact tracing tools for future pandemics or infectious disease outbreaks, as features of other apps. Removing the app from service aligns with other countries’ decisions to remove contact tracing apps. Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 8:44 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find information and guidance on getting tested, how to test and what happens if you test positive. How to get a free RAT or PCR test, where to find a community testing centre or a collection site, and how to report RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs), so follow the instructions in your kit. Whether positive or negative, you should report your result online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. You can do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. We encourage you to do this to ensure access to care and antivirals if you meet the eligibility criteria. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. There are 2 main types of COVID-19 tests in New Zealand: a rapid antigen test (RAT), which detects protein from the virus, and a Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR), which identifies genetic material from the virus. Last updated: 15 November 2022 at 2:52 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Rapid antigen tests detect specific proteins of the COVID-19 virus, such as the spike protein. They are less accurate than PCR tests for detecting COVID-19, especially when you have no symptoms or the amount of virus in your system is low. This is the viral load. RATs tend to be more accurate when the viral load is high and you are infectious. The main advantages of rapid antigen tests are that you: How to use a RAT The most accurate test for detecting if you have the virus for COVID-19 is a PCR test. This test detects genetic material from the virus in the sample. For the COVID-19 virus this is RNA. Laboratories can sequence the genetic material from a PCR test to identify which variant of COVID-19 a person has. Whole genome sequencing takes the genetic material detected from a PCR sample. It then generates a complete RNA sequence of the COVID-19 virus. This helps trace outbreaks and new variants.  Last updated: 17 February 2023 at 9:56 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. How to get a free RAT or PCR test, where to find a community testing centre or a collection site, and how to report RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Check the list of COVID-19 symptoms If you are a Household Contact of someone who has COVID-19, we recommend you do a RAT each day for 5 days. You are a Household Contact if: You are also a Household Contact if you do not normally share a residence with the person who has COVID-19, but spent a night together in the same room. For people travelling or holidaying around New Zealand, Household Contacts include people who share non-communal holiday accommodation such as a hotel room, tent, campervan, or temporary holiday home such as a bach or AirBNB. Two types of COVID-19 tests are available to the general public in New Zealand. A health professional can advise you on the right test to take in your situation. How COVID-19 testing works You are allowed to leave your home to get a COVID-19 test while you are isolating. We recommend keeping some RATs at home for testing if you or anyone in your household develops symptoms. RATs will remain free until 29 February 2024. You can continue to pick up free RATs for yourself and household members from participating pharmacies and RAT collection centres. Find a collection centre near you: COVID-19 testing | Healthpoint (external link) Your doctor may offer COVID-19 tests. Call them to find out and follow their advice. There may be a charge for some people. All remaining free COVID-19 testing sites will close by 30 November 2023. If you live rurally, have a disability, are immunocompromised or experience some other difficulty getting RATs, you may be eligible for additional help, including delivery if necessary. To find out if you are eligible, call 0800 222 478 . There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs). While the instructions are similar for each, make sure to check the instructions in your kit. How to use a RAT You should dispose of your used RATs, and expired RATs that you can no longer use. Dispose of your test Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. R eporting the result means you can get the help you need as early as possible. You will receive a text confirmation from either 2328 or 2648 with information about isolation and useful advice. How to report your RAT result After a PCR test, it is recommended you isolate until you receive a negative result. You will get your results in a text message from either 2328 or 2648 . It will take 2 to 5 days. If you test positive, the text message will provide information about isolation and useful advice. It is recommended you isolate for at least 5 days, even if you only have mild symptoms. The first day of your isolation is Day 0, which is the day your symptoms started or when you first tested positive, whichever came first. If you still feel unwell after you have completed 5 days of isolation, we recommend you stay at home until you are recovered. If you have COVID-19 Last updated: 20 October 2023 at 9:37 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Get ready by blowing your nose and then washing and drying your hands. Lay out the contents of your RAT kit — a tube of solution, a stopper, a swab, and the test cassette. Remove the swab (it looks like a long cotton ear bud). Take the soft end and gently glide swab in 1 nostril, going low and slow, about 2 centimetres deep. Twirl the swab over the surface of the nostril around 5 times. Then repeat in your other nostril, going round again slowly 5 times. Get the tube with solution, open it, keep it upright and make sure not to spill it. Place the soft end of the swab into the solution and swirl about 5 times. You want to make sure that the swab is soaked. Pinch the swab as you are removing it — squeeze as much liquid out as you can, to keep it in the tube. Place the stopper firmly on the tube. Give the tube a shake or flick a couple of times so it gets a good mix. Then leave upright for about a minute. With the test cassette ready on a flat surface, take your tube (with the solution of your sample), and turn it upside down. Follow the kit instructions as to how many drops are needed for your test. Squeeze the drops through the stopper onto the well. Wait for 15 minutes — set a timer if that helps. Again, check with the kit instructions as the waiting time may differ. Check for results. If there is no line at the C (C for control), or there are 3 lines, then the test did not work properly this time (it is invalid — this sometimes happens). You will need to do another test. If you see a single line at the C, this shows that the test has worked and you are negative for COVID-19. If you see 2 lines (even if it is a faint line at the T) then this shows you have tested positive for COVID-19. You will need to isolate for 7 days. We recommend you isolate for at least 5 days, even if you have only mild symptoms, starting at Day 0. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Please report your results (positive or negative): Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. How to report your RAT result You should dispose of your used RATs, and expired RATs that you can no longer use. For used RATs, place the test cassette, swab, tube of solution and stopper into your general household rubbish bin. Any cardboard packaging and instructions can then be placed into your recycling. For expired RAT kits, please recycle the cardboard packaging and instructions, and then place all other kit items in your general household rubbish bin. If you have bulk quantities of RATs to dispose of, please contact your local waste management provider to discuss disposal options with them. This information is available in a printable poster. How to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] The Ministry of Health has information on approved RATs and how to use them. Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 30 August 2023 at 8:31 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Reporting your results lets us continue to monitor and undertake surveillance for COVID-19 across Aotearoa. Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. Sign up for My Covid Record (external link) 1. Log in | My Covid Record (external link) 2. Under 'Report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result', tap or click 'Report a test result'.  3. Read the information provided. Tap or click 'Continue'.  4. Tap or click 'Myself', enter your mobile number and tick the box if you consent to receiving COVID-19 information. Tap or click 'Continue'.  5. Indicate which lines are visible on your test by selecting 'Yes' or 'No'.  6. Tap or click 'Enter result'. Advice about what to do next will appear.  If you have entered the wrong result by mistake, you will have 20 minutes to remove it. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, or need help with My Covid Record, contact the Ministry of Health team. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You can report a RAT result for someone else through your own My Covid Record account. This will allow them to be provided with any support required while isolating. You will need their: Log in | My Covid Record (external link) You can report a RAT result over the phone if you are having trouble using My Covid Record, or want to report someone else's RAT result and do not have their NHI. Testing requirements for international travellers Last updated: 25 August 2023 at 1:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 we recommend you isolate for at least 5 days, even if you only have mild symptoms. Find out what else you need to do. If you test positive for COVID-19, it is recommended you isolate for at least 5 days, even if you only have mild symptoms, starting at Day 0. This includes if you have had COVID-19 before. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Isolation means not going to work or school. Your Household Contacts do not need to isolate. If you are a Household Contact of someone who has COVID-19, we recommend you do a RAT each day for 5 days. You are a Household Contact if: You are also a Household Contact if you do not normally share a residence with the person who has COVID-19, but spent a night together in the same room. For people travelling or holidaying around New Zealand, Household Contacts include people who share non-communal holiday accommodation such as a hotel room, tent, campervan, or temporary holiday home such as a bach or AirBNB. You should stay at home and avoid contact with other people in your household. Find out what to do when isolating, including advice if you need to leave isolation, and how to ventilate your home. How to self-isolate Ventilation and COVID-19 If you need to go out during your recommended isolation, we recommend you wear a face mask. Some healthcare facilities and certain areas within healthcare facilities may ask visitors to wear a face mask. This is to protect those at higher risk, for example patients receiving care in an intensive care unit or emergency department of a hospital. To protect those at higher risk, respect and follow the healthcare facilities policies. If you have taken a rapid antigen test (RAT), report your positive result online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand will then send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers to confirm your positive result. This has information about recommended isolation and other useful advice. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If your employer asks to see proof that you are isolating, you can use this text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. Free antivirals to treat COVID-19 are available for people who are at risk of developing serious illness and for some people who have tested positive for COVID-19. Medicines to treat COVID-19 Most people with COVID-19 — especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted — are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to recover at home. Symptoms for COVID-19 tend to show 2 to 5 days after a person has been infected but can take up to 14 days. Omicron causes similar symptoms to other variants. Advice on managing your COVID-19 symptoms | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If you need advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call the COVID-19 Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If your symptoms get worse or you need urgent medical care, call your local healthcare provider or COVID-19 Healthline on 0800 358 5453 If you or the person you are caring for develops difficulty breathing, severe chest pain, fainting or becomes unconscious, call 111 immediately. If you require hospital-level care, it is free. After completing your 5 days of recommended isolation, if your symptoms have resolved and you feel well, you can return to your normal activities. You may receive a text message confirming your isolation period has ended. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave isolation. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school. But, you should discuss your return to work with your employer or school principal. Your employer or school may require additional precautions. Some people can still be infectious after 5 days. If you are still unwell after you have completed 5 days of recommended isolation, we recommend you stay home until you are recovered. If you do need to leave the house, we recommend you wear a mask and do not: After you have had COVID-19 The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can coordinate extra support for you if you need it. You may get COVID-19 while you are away from home. If you test positive while travelling, here is what you need to know. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after your initial COVID-19 symptoms. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. It can be hard supporting your tamariki (children) when they need to isolate with COVID-19. The COVID-19 Health Hub has advice on how to make things easier for children and parents. If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand, you will need to isolate for 7 days. Follow the isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. Last updated: 3 October 2023 at 12:55 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: If you have an underlying health condition or have symptoms of COVID-19 that are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should test with a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If i t is positive, you should stay at home and follow the same advice as for your first infection.  We recommended you isolate for at least 5 days, and follow the advice for people who have COVID-19. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: If you have had COVID-19 within the last 28 days, and someone in your household tests positive, you are not considered to be a Household Contact and you do not need to test. If it has been 29 days or longer since your COVID-19 infection and someone in your household tests positive, then you should test daily for 5 days. Household Contacts Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. You should wait 6 months after testing positive before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. Get a COVID-19 vaccination Last updated: 14 September 2023 at 9:56 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Most people will be able to manage isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there may be help available for you and your household if you need it.  Your local community organisations, for example, foodbanks, may be able to help you if you need further support. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. Keep in touch with your friends and whānau , your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. If you need help with urgent costs, or have to take unpaid leave, you may be eligible for support from Work and Income: Last updated: 25 August 2023 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, we recommend you isolate for 5 days, even if you only have mild symptoms, starting at Day 0. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. This means you should not go to work or school. If you do need to leave your home during your 5 day recommended isolation period, it is very important you take precautions to prevent spreading COVID-19 to others. You should wear a mask whenever you leave the house. You should not: Some healthcare facilities and certain areas within healthcare facilities may ask visitors to wear a face mask. This is to protect those at higher risk, for example patients receiving care in an intensive care unit or emergency department of a hospital. To protect those at higher risk, respect and follow the healthcare facilities policies. You should discuss your return to work with your employer or your child’s return to school with their school principal. Your employer or your school may require additional precautions. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. Ventilation and COVID-19 You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are isolating: We are isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] You can exercise outside your home while isolating. You can exercise in your neighbourhood, but not using any shared facility, such as a swimming pool or gym. You cannot exercise with other people unless they are part of your household. Be mindful to: If you are away from home or your normal place of residence, you can return home in a private vehicle. If you get COVID-19 while travelling If your employer asks to see proof that you were isolating, you can use your My Covid Record positive result confirmation text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. Recording your positive RAT result is important because you: The official 2328 or 2648 numbers are text message services used by Te Whatu Ora. They confirm: The Holiday Act 2003 says an employer can ask an employee for proof of sickness or injury for sick leave taken if it is for 3 or more consecutive days. Text messages from 2328 or 2648 are reliable proof of a person needing to isolate or take time off due to COVID-19. You do not need to ask for a medical certificate. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | Employment New Zealand (external link) Last updated: 14 September 2023 at 9:55 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. This page is for people who live in New Zealand and are travelling domestically. If you test positive while visiting New Zealand | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) You could get COVID-19 while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. Self-isolation requirements for travellers | Health Hub (external link) We encourage domestic travellers to get travel insurance. Before you buy travel insurance, we recommend you check what cover it provides for COVID-19-related events, including medical treatment, the cost of changing your travel arrangements or paying for accommodation if you need to isolate. If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, take a test immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from your nearest collection point. You should tell your accommodation provider if you have tested positive. They may have some isolation guidelines and advice for you. They may also want to make sure the property is safe for the next booking. We recommend you: If you or the people you are travelling with can drive home in a private or work vehicle, we recommend you make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: We recommend wearing a P2/N95 particulate respirator mask when you travel home to reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19 to others. If you cannot wear this type of mask, make sure you wear a medical mask that fits well. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the isolation guidance. How to self-isolate Last updated: 15 August 2023 at 12:02 am Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. You should expect to recover from the first signs and symptoms of COVID-19 within 2 to 4 weeks. You should be back to all activities you were doing before COVID-19 within 12 weeks. Yet, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard 12-week period. Long COVID is a general term used to describe symptoms that continue or develop beyond the standard time of recovery. In New Zealand, we divide long COVID into 2 groups: Long COVID can affect any system of the body, and the severity of symptoms may fluctuate over time. The type of symptoms someone experiences may also vary over time. Symptoms often improve over time. Anyone can develop long COVID, but it is more common if you had severe symptoms when you first got sick. A second COVID-19 infection could trigger long COVID. You are at more risk of getting long COVID if you: Long COVID is less common in children and adolescents. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. Some of the more commonly reported symptoms are below. General symptoms include: Cardiovascular symptoms include: Respiratory symptoms include: Neurological symptoms include: Ear, nose and throat symptoms include: The best way to prevent long COVID is to prevent infection with COVID-19. Vaccines reduce the risk of long COVID by lowering the chances of getting COVID-19. There is also evidence that vaccination reduces the risk of people who get COVID-19 going on to develop long COVID. Vaccination against COVID-19 is available to all New Zealand adults and children 5 years and over. COVID-19 vaccines To protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Along with staying up to date with your vaccinations, it is a good idea to: Protect yourself and others Researchers and healthcare providers are still working out the best ways to manage long COVID. There are currently no specific treatments. Your healthcare provider can help you manage the symptoms that affect you the most. Talk to them if you get any new symptoms or your symptoms get worse. Your health provider can connect you to support services including: It is important not to rush your recovery. Make sure you get enough rest, pace yourself and plan what you are going to do. You can call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline for advice, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week for free on 0800 358 5453 . Long COVID | Health Navigator (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing Managing long COVID | Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand (external link) Recovering from COVID-19, including long COVID | KidsHealth (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | World Health Organization (external link) I think I have long COVID | Your COVID Recovery — NHS (external link) Children and young people living with Long Covid | Long COVID Kids (external link) Resources | Long COVID Physio (external link) Last updated: 27 January 2023 at 1:45 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
COVID-19 information has a new home. Starting from December 11 2023, you can find information on the Te Whatu Ora Health Information and Services website. COVID-19 — Health Information and Services Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. With COVID-19 case numbers trending downwards, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines, most COVID-19 rules and border restrictions have ended. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. Most people who get COVID-19 experience a mild to moderate illness, and can safely recover at home. Some people with a higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are eligible for treatment with COVID-19 antiviral medicines. These medicines reduce the amount of virus in your body, so you do not get as sick and you are less likely to go to hospital. You can get a prescription for antivirals from your doctor or hauora provider. Some pharmacies can supply antivirals without a prescription. You can get free antiviral medicines if you: Eligible people include: You are also eligible if you have 3 or more high-risk factors for severe illness from COVID-19. Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or hauora provider if you think that you, or a member of your whānau may be eligible for antiviral medicines. COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat eligible people with COVID-19 at home. You must start taking COVID-19 medicines within the first 5 days of becoming unwell with COVID-19. When taken early in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you stay out of hospital. These medicines are free for eligible people within 5 days of their symptoms starting. Talk to your doctor or nurse by phone to see if getting a prescription is right for you. They will help you work out if you are eligible for COVID-19 medicine. It will depend on several factors, including your age, ethnicity, other health conditions and vaccination status. Many pharmacists will be able to supply COVID-19 antivirals without a prescription if you test positive or are a Household Contact. The pharmacist will check your eligibility. Talk to your pharmacist or a registered nurse either immediately after you test positive or develop symptoms to see if the medicines are right for you. If you are at risk of becoming very unwell with COVID-19 you may be able to get a prescription before you get COVID-19. This means the pharmacist will have the prescription ready to use if you become unwell. If you test positive, you can then arrange to have the medicine delivered by your friends, whānau or the pharmacy. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will confirm that it is still safe for you to take COVID-19 medicines. You will not be able to get the medicine until you test positive for COVID-19. Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or Hauora provider if you think that you, or a member of your whānau may be eligible for antiviral medicines. You can also ask if getting a prescription before you get unwell is right for you. Pharmacies supplying antivirals can be found on Healthpoint. You will need a prescription to get antivirals at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) You can get antivirals without a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you do not need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) If you have COVID-19, we recommend you isolate for 5 days, even if you only have mild symptoms. If you are eligible for antiviral medicines, arrange to have them delivered by friends, whānau or by other means. Some pharmacies can deliver the medicine. How to self-isolate Some other medicines are available to treat COVID-19 but are only given in hospital. Pharmac, the agency which decides what medicines are available in New Zealand, has more information on its website. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Translations Last updated: 2 October 2023 at 12:54 pm Languages and resources Contact and support