My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Everyone can access basic needs services, like supermarkets, pharmacies and healthcare. But you get more freedoms with My Vaccine Pass. What you need to know Get the latest updates Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do.  Download the COVID-19 Protection Framework summary [PDF, 1.7 MB] Search for your local traffic light setting. Black lines indicate the boundary around Auckland, which includes Port Waikato. We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Everyone can access basic needs services, like supermarkets, pharmacies and healthcare. But you get more freedoms with My Vaccine Pass. What you need to know Get the latest updates Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do.  Download the COVID-19 Protection Framework summary [PDF, 1.7 MB] Search for your local traffic light setting. We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Find information about the history of the COVID-19 Alert System, Independent Advisory Groups, legislation and key documents. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community.  At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2.  The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm.  Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021.   A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 10:29 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by a diverse range of perspectives, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet has convened the Community Panel. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The purpose of the group is to provide advice to the Minister for the COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. The Group could: Terms of Reference define the purpose and scope for the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] Documents from COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group are proactively released to the public. Proactive releases The group has proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Read the latest reports Last updated: 30 July 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review and Improvement and Advice Group (CICRIAG) has conducted a review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak. They have proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. A number of agencies have already begun their own work to consolidate recommendations from a range of reviews. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group are coordinating with agencies to build a complete system-view of these recommendations and progress against recommended improvements. A full stocktake of recommendations has been undertaken, along with the status of those recommendations.  Accountabilities for recommendations will sit with appropriate agencies, and progress will be monitored by the COVID-19 Group. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Recommendations have been grouped into themes to provide reporting on the system trends. 10 themes have been workshopped and developed by a group of representatives from key agencies/groups involved across the COVID-19 Response system. These themes are: Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Community Panel was established in July 2021 by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to provide insights across the COVID-19 system direct from communities. The Panel brings lived experiences and deep community ties to provide a diverse range of perspectives on different aspects of the COVID-19 response and to help ensure issues such as equity are addressed. The Panel members represent communities such as rural, youth/aged, disabled, Māori, Pacific, LGBTQ+ and other ethnic groups. Their expertise will help shape the medium- to long-term COVID-19 strategy. Members were chosen after consultation with other government agencies to ensure strong cross-agency collaboration.  The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Community Panel. Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB]  When information is proactively released about the Community Panel, it will be available on this page. Last updated: 15 November 2021 at 3:44 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The purpose of the group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. Read Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] The group has provided Hon Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health (Public Health), their advice about the future of the elimination strategy and the phased re-opening of borders. Read the group's advice to Minister Verrall [PDF, 312 KB] Published at 5am on Wednesday 11 August 2021. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 8:14 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. Make a direct request for official information The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. This includes papers, minutes, Official Information Act requests (OIAs) and key advice. These documents are proactively released in keeping with the Official Information Act 1982. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Last updated: 8 July 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Alert Level Orders are published on the New Zealand legislation website | legislation.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 9 October 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Last updated: 17 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Last updated: 9 October 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Last updated: 11 August 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 10:02 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Last updated: 29 August 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. View documents from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Last updated: 26 November 2021 at 10:08 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Last updated: 15 October 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Our website privacy statement, terms of use, contact details if you would like advice or have feedback, and how to access archives of our website. How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. Last updated: 23 July 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. You can also contact us directly for help with your enquiries. I am looking for... It is OK to ask for help. As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Here is a range of advice, help, or support if you need it. Download a list of available services and support [PDF, 164 KB] The COVID-19 Healthline kaimahi support people with information and advice about COVID-19. This includes clinical advice about symptoms and non-clinical advice about testing locations. Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Interpreter services are available. Find who to contact for COVID-19 related support. If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. Support if you are seeking a job, or if you want to know your rights as an employee and keep yourself safe. There may be support available for employers, employees and those who have lost their job or had their income reduced, or assistance to buy food. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach You can contact the COVID-19 Group by emailing or sending a letter to us. If you are sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Email: covid19response@dpmc.govt.nz Postal address: COVID-19 Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:55 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There is no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) Last updated: 8 October 2021 at 1:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. You cannot adapt the content. CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence terms (external link) In addition to the above: The content may only be used for the purpose of raising awareness of COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccinations, and communicating the related rules, regulations, guidelines and safety information. The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use (including the “Purpose of use” section above). Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use (including the “Purpose of use” section above). To the extent that the above terms conflicts with the Creative Commons CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence, the above terms will take precedence. The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC) may remove access to the content at any time, and contact users to let them know if the content is out of date. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website Last updated: 4 October 2021 at 7:49 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) Last updated: 6 October 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Get your free vaccination now and unlock the things you love with My Vaccine Pass. You might be interested in Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 Find out about booking your vaccination, what to expect at your appointment, and the vaccine rollout groups. Find information about COVID-19 vaccination for businesses and workers, including border and MIQ workers. Discover NZ Vaccine Facts, learn about vaccine development, safety and effectiveness, and find resources to download and share. Last updated 10 December 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. COVID (external link) (external link) COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Māori communities (external link) (external link) COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Pacific communities (external link) 3,948,761 First dose administered 3,747,367 Second dose administered 94% Eligible population with 1 dose 89% Eligible population with 2 doses         Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:54 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Vaccination is your pass to unlock summer. Find where's close to get your dose below — you can just walk in or drive through. Get 1 now. Get another in 3 weeks. You do not have to wait to get your COVID-19 vaccination. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get vaccinated without an appointment. How to get your COVID-19 vaccination We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. You can learn from the experts and get answers to your questions. COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Summer's a great time to hang out with friends and whānau. So it's important to support the people you love to be vaccinated. Talk to them about why you got vaccinated. There are some good pointers on how to have a positive conversation on this site. Help them find information from trusted sources, or give them practical support — offer them a lift to the vaccination centre, or buy them a coffee afterwards. How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine We all have a part to play in getting back to the gigs, events, concerts and festivals we love. If you want to get back to 'live', and attend an event this summer, you'll need to be vaccinated. #VaxForLive Facebook (external link) #VaxForLive Instagram (external link) From Friday 3 December, when Aotearoa moves to the traffic light system, you may need a vaccine pass to enter venues and events — like cafes and concerts. How to get My Vaccine Pass  Karawhiua website (external link)  Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 3:50 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Find out how to get COVID-19 vaccination status certificates for use in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how you will be able to show proof of COVID-19 vaccination status when travelling overseas. Find out about using the website My Covid Record to access your COVID-19 vaccination records, My Vaccine Pass, and International Travel Vaccination Certificates. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 6:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on:  Anyone 12 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. The details included on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. You can review your personal details when you request the certificate. If you need to change your details to match your passport, instructions on how to do this will be available. These certificates comply with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. Some countries may have different requirements. Before travelling, please check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. You will also need to follow all the usual immigration processes for the country you wish to enter. Additional steps, such as having a negative pre-departure test, may also be required.  View a larger image of International Travel Vaccination Certificate example [PNG, 1.3 MB] Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate will have a QR code that will be scanned when you are travelling. It will include details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had administered in New Zealand. You can save this certificate on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. This certificate is valid for 12 months. International Travel Vaccination Certificates only show vaccines given in New Zealand. If you received 1 or more doses of a COVID-19 vaccine overseas, you should also request a certificate from that country to travel outside of New Zealand. If you received both your doses overseas, you cannot get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate from New Zealand. If you have already received a vaccination confirmation letter you can still use this for international travel, but we recommend you request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate through My Covid Record to ensure the country you are travelling to recognises your proof of vaccination status. Vaccination confirmation letters and Privacy Act requests (external link) My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: Or an Australian: My Covid Record (external link) If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, need help with My Covid Record, or have a query about your COVID-19 records, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Phone: 0800 222 478 Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Your guide to signing up and using My Covid Record [PDF, 301 KB] You can sign up for My Covid Record on behalf of someone else, if you have their permission. They will need their own unique email address. If they do not have an email address, call 0800 222 478 for help. It will help to have their NHI number ready. We take your privacy seriously. Only you can access your secure My Covid Record. Your account must be verified with a valid form of identification so we know it is actually you. By keeping your account safe, no one else will be able to access your records. If you were vaccinated in New Zealand, you can request your vaccine pass through My Covid Record now. My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. How to get My Vaccine Pass For international use, the details included on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. International Travel Vaccination Certificates only show vaccines given in New Zealand. How to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate My Covid Record allows you to check your vaccination record is up to date. The information in My Covid Record comes from the data stored in the national COVID-19 Immunisation Register (CIR). Accessing your NHI number as a QR code will make visiting places like COVID-19 testing sites quick and easy, as it allows us to scan the QR code to identify you. You can now see recent COVID-19 test results on My Covid Record. When you log into your account, you will be able to view all the test results you have had in the last 90 days, including the type of test and the date of the result. If a test comes back positive, there will be a delay of 72 hours before it shows up in your My Covid Record account. This allows time for a health professional to contact you about your test result and provide advice. My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificate COVID-19 vaccine: Exemptions and certificates | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 10:42 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you have contacted us about missing vaccination records or incorrect personal details and have not yet received a My Vaccine Pass, you will be emailed a temporary exemption letter. You can use this in place of a My Vaccine Pass until Tuesday 14 December . Interim solution for people waiting for their My Vaccine Pass (external link) There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. The quickest way to get a pass is through the website My Covid Record. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, you can get your pass over the phone or at a participating vaccination site. A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on:  Once your pass has been emailed to you, it gives you the option to save it to your phone: Another way to save the pass to your phone is to take a screenshot of the QR code when you open the PDF in your email. You can save this to your phone. Make sure it is not blurry or pixelated and there is blank space around the edges. It is helpful if your name can be seen in the screenshot. If you would prefer to have a physical copy of your pass, download and print the PDF attachment in the email. When printing, use the highest quality setting on your printer to ensure the QR code is clear so it can be scanned easily when entering venues.   Some Android users have had problems with the shortcut for My Vaccine Pass disappearing from their phones. Google has fixed the issue – you can expect an update on your phone in the next week. You can still access your pass via your Google Pay app. My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. It will allow you to access certain events and venues operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic light system). Learn about the traffic light system You can request a My Vaccine Pass if you are aged 12 or over and: Your My Vaccine Pass will include your name, date of birth and a QR code. You can save it on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. It will expire 6 months from the date of issue, or on 1 June 2022, whichever comes sooner. We have set an expiry date to allow flexibility in how we respond to the changing nature of the pandemic. People under the age of 12 years and 3 months are not required to show proof of vaccination. View a larger image of My Vaccine Pass example [PNG, 3.3 MB] From Friday 3 December you may need to use My Vaccine Pass to enter events and venues as required by the traffic light system. You may need to show it in a range of public settings. These could include: Businesses may scan the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. This app will confirm your vaccination status for the business. You may also be asked to show ID. It will not store your data or show any information other than your name and date of birth. Businesses cannot accept a purple vaccination card or vaccination confirmation letter as proof of your vaccination status. You will not need to show proof of vaccination to access basic needs services like: If you are unable to get the COVID-19 vaccine for medical reasons, there is an exemption process to get your My Vaccine Pass. You will need to talk to your doctor and they will apply on your behalf. Find out more about exemptions and certificates | health.govt.nz (external link) My Vaccine Pass cannot be used for overseas travel. If you are going to another country, you will need to request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. International Travel Vaccination Certificates If were vaccinated overseas, you must have received one of the following 8 accepted COVID-19 vaccines to get a My Vaccine Pass: Your vaccination record must be added to New Zealand's COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). How to add your vaccination record to the CIR | health.govt.nz (external link) You can request your My Vaccine Pass once you have received acknowledgement your record has been added. The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. At certain traffic light settings, businesses and organisations are encouraged to use the app to check customers' My Vaccine Pass. Requirements will depend on the sector and the choices the business or organisation has made about how they will operate under the traffic light system. If you need technical help with the NZ Pass Verifier app, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 . When a business or organisation uses the app to scan your My Vaccine Pass, it will show a green tick – this confirms it is a valid pass. It also shows your name and date of birth. The verifier can request to see your ID to check it matches the details on the app. It is an offence for a business to sell the details from the My Vaccine Pass, or use the details for purposes outside the COVID-19 response. Any personal information collected – for example, that you have been verified – remains subject to the protections in the Privacy Act 2020. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) NZ Pass Verifier – Terms of use and privacy policy | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are unsure whether someone has a Ministry of Health issued medical exemption or is fully vaccinated, scan their My Vaccine Pass to check they meet the requirements to enter your premises. The NZ Pass Verifier app will show a green tick. The Ministry of Health is the only agency authorised to provide a medical exemption from getting vaccinated. A person who has a medical exemption can get a My Vaccine Pass, which when scanned will show a green tick – the same as all passes. A small number of people have a temporary exemption from the requirement to produce a My Vaccine Pass. The temporary exemption is a record of the individual’s request for assistance and has a unique identifier. It can be shown to businesses and organisations that require a My Vaccine Pass. It is valid until 11:59pm on 14 December 2021. Interim solution for people waiting for their My Vaccine Pass Exemptions from mandatory vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) You may receive a purple vaccination card at your first appointment. This is not official proof of your vaccination — it is to remind you when your second appointment is. Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 10:53 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines were developed, how we know they are effective, and how the Pfizer vaccine works. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. Young people aged 12 to 15 can get the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccination, providing consent, and vaccinations for children under 12. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. Last updated: 29 July 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Pfizer vaccine is proven to be highly effective in young people after 2 doses are administered. That means if they do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and less likely to transmit the virus to others. Across all age groups, studies have shown that about 95% of people who received both doses of the Pfizer vaccine were protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. For the 12 to 15-year-old age group, Pfizer has reported 100% efficacy against symptomatic COVID-19 infection. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. The Pfizer vaccine was provisionally approved for people in New Zealand aged 12 to 15 in June 2021. Medsafe only approves a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. Millions of people aged 12 to 15 have now been vaccinated around the world, and no additional safety concerns have been raised. Research and data on vaccinating young people — Ministry of Health (external link)   Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. These side effects are generally mild and should only last 1 or 2 days. Side effects of the Pfizer vaccine As with all medicines, there is a risk of an allergic response after this vaccine. This is why everyone is asked to wait for at least 15 minutes. The Pfizer vaccine is safe for people with food allergies. Unlike some other vaccines, there is no food, gelatin or latex in the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine, and it is not grown in eggs. If someone has a history of an immediate allergic reaction to other products, including food, medicines or other vaccines, they can still have this vaccine but are asked to stay a little longer (at least 30 minutes) for monitoring. Vaccinators are trained to recognise these symptoms and have the appropriate equipment to treat people on site. While children aged 12 and above have the right to give their own consent, we recommend young people discuss vaccination with their parents, whānau or a trusted support person. A health professional will also discuss the vaccine with them before they get vaccinated and answer any questions they have. If they have a good understanding, they can say yes or no to getting the vaccine. If they would prefer, a parent or caregiver can provide consent instead. COVID-19 vaccine informed consent for young people aged 12-15 years policy statement (PDF, 176 KB) (external link) At this stage, a school-based COVID-19 vaccination programme is not planned for 2021. Children under 12 are not yet able to get the COVID-19 vaccine. While the Pfizer vaccine has been trialled overseas in children aged 5 to 11, it is not yet approved for use in New Zealand for this age group. Medsafe — New Zealand’s medicine and vaccine regulator is currently reviewing the trial results. If Medsafe approves the use of Pfizer in children under 12, Cabinet will make a decision on whether children under 12 are able to get vaccinated. You will need to wait until your child turns 12 to book a vaccine. At this stage, you cannot book an appointment before their 12th birthday. The age of the person will be checked before they are vaccinated.  COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Watch NZ Vaccine Facts What to expect when you get your vaccination  Last updated: 7 December 2021 at 12:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Answering your questions If you have another question, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. COVID-19 vaccines needed to be rolled out quickly, but that does not mean safety was compromised. The Pfizer vaccine we are using in New Zealand is held to the same high safety standards as any other medicine. COVID-19 vaccines are the most well-studied vaccines ever made. Nearly 50% of the world's population have had a COVID-19 vaccine, and more than 3 million people in Aotearoa have had their first Pfizer vaccine. This means we have lots of data to show the Pfizer vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety.      Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. Studies show that 95% of people who have received 2 doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms.       You might feel nervous about getting the vaccine, which is normal. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm, and it will be over very fast. You will then need to stay for at least 15 minutes so we can make sure you do not have an immediate reaction.        Book now or visit one of the many places around New Zealand where you can get vaccinated without an appointment. How to get your vaccination Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 10:58 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan. Last updated: 11 October 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 89 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB]  Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine Last updated: 23 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 1024 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB]  We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. Watch all our campaign videos (external link) COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 11:03 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB]    Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 6:03 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Choose an episode In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, traffic light settings, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. Learn more about how Aotearoa New Zealand responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, and why getting vaccinated is an important step towards protection from the virus. COVID-19 is a disease caused by the virus SARS-CoV-2. But what is a virus? And how do vaccines prepare you to fight off these ‘invaders’, so you are less likely to get sick if you catch it? Vaccines can be made in different ways. For COVID-19, Aotearoa New Zealand chose to use a type of vaccine known as an mRNA vaccine, produced by Pfizer. But what is an mRNA vaccine? It is natural for a virus to change and produce variations of itself. These are known as 'variants' and are all slightly different to the original virus. But will vaccines still work against them? Development of vaccines for COVID-19 was based on decades of research. The vaccines were produced quickly because testing was able to be streamlined. Before getting consent for use in Aotearoa New Zealand, vaccines must meet our strict standards for quality and safety. The benefits of getting a COVID-19 vaccine far outweigh the risks. A vaccination provides you, your whānau and your communities better protection against the virus. When everyone is vaccinated, this helps to end the pandemic. Booking your COVID-19 vaccination is easy. When you get the 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine, you may experience some side effects. So what are they? Note: The advice about the gap between doses has changed since this video was made. We are now advising all New Zealanders to consider a shorter gap of 3 weeks between their 2 doses, instead of the standard 6 weeks. Reducing this gap means more people can be fully vaccinated sooner, increasing our community immunity. Vaccination will help us get back to doing the things we love. But keep carrying out these simple steps so we stay on top of outbreaks: stay home if you are unwell and get a test, keep scanning in to keep track of where you have been, wear a face covering in situations where the virus could spread easily (like on public transport), and wash your hands regularly.  Watch episode 8 (external link) Last updated: 27 October 2021 at 5:58 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you’re pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant.   If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility — IMAC (external link) Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Last updated: 19 November 2021 at 2:42 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. You can have the third primary dose at least 8 weeks after your second dose. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. If it is 8 weeks since your second dose, and your doctor offers the COVID-19 vaccination, they can give you the third dose immediately. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people — Ministry of Health (external link) If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: What the AstraZeneca vaccine contains What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 12:17 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and older who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. Both the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines will protect you against the symptoms of COVID-19. Both vaccines are free. The AstraZeneca vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 4 weeks before getting your second dose. To have the best protection, you need to get both doses of the vaccine. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety by Medsafe. Medsafe only grants approval for using a vaccine in Aotearoa once it is satisfied the international evidence shows benefits outweigh the risks. There have been no shortcuts taken in granting approval. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been used successfully by millions worldwide. You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: You cannot get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you are under 18 years old. The AstraZeneca vaccine is injected into a muscle (usually in the upper arm). The second injection can be given between 4 and 12 weeks after the first injection. If you get AstraZeneca for the first dose then you should also get it (and not the Pfizer vaccine) for the second dose. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination. There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. Pregnancy and the Pfizer vaccine The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The AstraZeneca vaccine stimulates the body’s immune system. It causes the body to produce antibodies to help fight the virus. This will help to protect you against COVID-19 in the future. None of the ingredients in this vaccine can cause COVID-19. COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. In the clinical trials, the AstraZeneca vaccine gave 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. It also shows effectiveness against hospital admission of at least 80% after a single dose. For the best protection, you need 2 doses. As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines There are some side effects that are very rare but are more serious. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately. AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Assessing and approving the vaccines | Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca | Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 10:02 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. If you are aged 18 years or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) Data from England shows that 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine is highly effective against the Delta variant. Evidence also shows that the few vaccinated people who do get the Delta variant tend to have a milder illness with fewer symptoms. COVID-19: About the Delta variant – Ministry of Health (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? As with any vaccine, the Pfizer vaccine may not fully protect everyone who gets it from COVID-19. But research shows that if you get your 2 doses, you will have a high degree of protection against infection. Booster doses This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 10:59 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Find out about how to book your vaccination, walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres, booster doses, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a vaccination at any traffic light setting. Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or the AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection from COVID-19. You can get a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine if it has been 6 months since your second dose. Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Last updated: 18 August 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. To reschedule or cancel an appointment online, you will need your booking reference. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. If you cannot find your booking reference, or you booked using a landline number, you can reschedule or cancel an appointment over the phone. Call the COVID Vaccine Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . Last updated: 24 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you are aged 12 or over, you can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. What you need to know Everyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link)   It will take around 5 minutes to book your appointments. Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. Appointment availability map (external link) Book My Vaccine will show a list of vaccination centres where AstraZeneca is available. Not all sites will have it, as Pfizer is the main vaccine we are using in New Zealand. If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. 0800 28 29 26 It will take around 15 minutes to book your appointments. It is a good idea to have your NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. Find your NHI There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Reschedule or cancel your appointment If you need to be reminded of the time, date or venue for your appointments, you can try the following. If you booked with your email address or mobile number, your appointment details will have been sent to you. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. If you know your booking reference, you can check your appointment details through Book My Vaccine. Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Manage your appointments — Book My Vaccine (external link) They will be able to find your appointment details — you do not need to know your booking reference number. Call 0800 28 29 26 . A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on: Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 11:44 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can get a booster dose if: You can get a booster dose by: The Pfizer vaccine is the primary vaccine being used in New Zealand for booster doses, even if you had a different vaccine for your earlier doses. Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 1024 KB] You do not need a booster dose to be 'fully vaccinated' or to get a vaccine pass or certificate. If you do get a booster dose, it will be added to My Covid Record and you can create another pass. My Covid Record (external link) Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 18 and over will become eligible for a booster vaccine dose 6 months after their second dose. Healthcare and border workers are a priority for booster vaccine doses. They are at the frontline of the response to the COVID-19 pandemic and large numbers had their primary doses at least 6 months ago. We will make sure older people and kaumatua, including people in residential care, have access to booster doses when they are eligible. Currently, booster doses will not be mandatory for workers who need to be vaccinated. Boosters are not needed to get a My Vaccine Pass or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Vaccination status certificates If you had your vaccination overseas, you can get a Pfizer booster 6 months after you received your most recent vaccine. The Pfizer vaccine is the recommended booster dose regardless of what vaccine you had for earlier doses. The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster dose 6 months after receiving their third primary dose. Third primary dose if you are immunocompromised If you are fully vaccinated, you remain well-protected from getting seriously ill if you do get COVID-19. While boosters are recommended for anyone who has had their second dose at least 6 months ago, there is no need to rush to get a booster. Current evidence shows that antibody levels decrease over time after the second Pfizer vaccine dose. There is reduced protection against infection from 6 months after a primary vaccination course. A booster dose is recommended no earlier than 6 months after you finish your primary vaccination course. The COVID vaccine booking systems and the COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) are designed to make sure there is a gap of at least 6 months before you get a booster. When you arrive for your booster, the date of your last vaccination will be checked in the CIR to make sure it has been at least 6 months since your last vaccination. Data from Pfizer shows that a booster dose is 95.6% effective against COVID-19, including the Delta variant. This is compared to those who did not receive a booster. At this stage, there is no data available on duration of protection against infection and disease following a booster dose. Health officials will continue to review information as it becomes available. Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. Side effects Boosters use the same Pfizer vaccine that was used for the first two doses in New Zealand’s vaccination rollout. About the Pfizer vaccine Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 11:31 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The standard gap between doses of the Pfizer vaccine is now 3 weeks or more . In August we extended the standard gap between first and second doses of the Pfizer vaccine from 3 to 6 weeks. This allowed us to give 1 dose (partial protection) to a larger number of people faster. A shorter time between the 2 doses is recommended in some cases — for example, when people are at higher risk of contracting COVID-19, or have a specific clinical treatment plan. Since then, the Delta outbreak has increased the risk of contracting COVID-19 for everyone in New Zealand, no matter where you are in the country. Because of this increased risk, we are now advising all New Zealanders to consider a shorter gap of 3 weeks between their 2 doses, instead of the standard 6 weeks. Reducing this gap means more people can be fully vaccinated sooner, increasing our community immunity. The minimum gap between doses will continue to be 21 days. If you have already been fully vaccinated and had your 2 doses closer together than 6 weeks, you have received your best protection. Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. The standard gap between doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine is 4 weeks or more . Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. You can also choose to get your second dose without booking an appointment at a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Booster doses are available from November 29 for anyone in New Zealand aged 18 or over who completed their 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine at least 6 months ago. It does not matter if they received their earlier doses in New Zealand or overseas. Getting your booster dose Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised will be eligible to get a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. This third dose will be optional, but is recommended. This primary third dose is different to a booster dose for the general population. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster dose 6 months after receiving their third primary dose. Find more information on how to get a third primary dose Side effects Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 11:31 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. The Pfizer vaccine is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are aged 18 or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) COVID-19: About the Delta variant — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection. The standard gap between doses is: Learn more about getting your second dose Clinical trials found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection and the AstraZeneca vaccine 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Healthy habits COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificates  Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 10:41 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: Some side effects are more common after the second dose. There are some side effects that are very rare but are more serious. Myocarditis is the inflammation of the heart muscle wall and is a known rare side effect of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms can include: Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: Shortness of breath Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects — Ministry of Health (external link) You can: If you have concerns or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your doctor or other health professional, or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you are concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. COVID-19 vaccine: Report an adverse reaction (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand — Ministry of Health (external link) The Ministry of Health has launched the Post Vaccine Symptom Check, a mobile-based survey that will help monitor reactions to the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. Up to 10 percent of New Zealanders who receive a dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will be randomly selected to participate in the survey. Ministry of Health launches mobile-based vaccine monitoring survey (external link) What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 10:48 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Information for businesses and workers about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout and mandatory vaccination. Find out about mandatory COVID-19 vaccinations for workers at the border and sectors including health and disability and education. How employers can help their workers get vaccinated and information about the NZ Pass Verifier app. Your rights as an employee when you get the COVID-19 vaccination. Last updated: 11 October 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Sectors and business types where COVID-19 vaccinations are mandatory: If a business is only offering takeaway food and drink, then workers do not need to be vaccinated. This may be because they work with populations that: Vaccination in these sectors is an important tool for reducing infection and transmission. For example, in healthcare, workers are more likely to be in contact with someone that has COVID-19, making it a high-risk sector. A high rate of vaccination in this sector will help to protect staff from getting sick and passing COVID-19 onto others, including those who are at risk from severe illness. Most people in these sectors are already vaccinated. But getting everyone in these sectors vaccinated is critical to the management of COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings are required to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Learn more about border worker vaccinations Certain roles in the education sector are required to be vaccinated against COVID-19. This includes anyone who works, volunteers, or does unpaid work in education and who either: Education services where workers, volunteers or unpaid workers need to be vaccinated include: The mandatory order does not include: Education workers must get their first dose by 15 November 2021. They must get their second dose by 1 January 2022. Under the Public Health Order, schools must maintain a register of the COVID-19 vaccination status of workers. Since the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) came into effect on 3 December, it is no longer necessary to maintain a register of students’ COVID-19 vaccination status. Workers in health and disability roles and settings are required to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Health practitioners who need to be vaccinated include: Anyone who works closely with these health practitioners or who work in a facility providing healthcare also need to be vaccinated. These include: Care and support workers who go into people’s homes to provide services funded by the Ministry of Health, DHBs or ACC will need to be vaccinated. This includes any family, whānau or aiga who are paid to provide support or care in the disabled person’s home. Health and disability workers need their first dose by 15 November 2021. They must get their second dose by 1 January 2022. Workers in the corrections sector are required to be vaccinated against COVID-19. This includes: Corrections workers needed to have their first dose by 6 November 2021. They must get their second dose by 8 December 2021. All sworn members, recruits and authorised officers of the New Zealand Police are required to be vaccinated against COVID-19. They must have their first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine by 17 January 2022, and their second dose by 1 March 2022. All New Zealand Defence Force staff are required to be vaccinated against COVID-19. They must have their first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine by 17 January 2022, and their second dose by 1 March 2022. Workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate need to have their first dose by 3 December and be fully vaccinated by 17 January 2022. This applies to food and drink services (excluding businesses that operate solely as takeaways), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. The mandate also applies to on-site tertiary education when Red settings are in place. Vaccination assessment tool | business.govt.nz (external link) My Vaccine Pass – work vaccination mandate | business.govt.nz (external link) Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for the border, health and education sectors and in prisons | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about exemptions for hospitality, events, close-contact businesses, gyms and tertiary education will be available soon on business.govt.nz. NZ Police and NZ Defence Force will have information about exemptions available in mid-December 2021. COVID-19: Mandatory vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Required Vaccinations Order | education.govt.nz (external link) Corrections COVID-19 vaccination programme | corrections.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | legislation.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 12:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 outlines these requirements. On 14 July 2021, following an amendment to the Vaccinations Order, the rules for vaccination against COVID-19 was broadened to most border workers. Including airports and ports. The Vaccinations Order is a legally binding health instruction which requires certain groups of border workers to be vaccinated to undertake ‘certain work’. From 30 September, any newly employed workers need to have their first dose of COVID-19 vaccination before starting work in a role covered by the Vaccinations Order. They must have their second dose within 35 days of their start date. All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: It also includes people doing work: Use this tool to find out if a worker must get vaccinated Three vaccines commonly administered overseas are now recognised for border workers in New Zealand that need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If a worker has had a full course of Moderna, AstraZeneca, Janssen or Pfizer, they can work on or around the border. If a border worker is partially vaccinated, they will need to have a further single dose of the COVID-19 vaccine within 35 days of starting work. A border worker who has received the Janssen vaccine while overseas will not need a further dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. You can book your COVID-19 vaccination online or over the phone, or by visiting a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. How to get a vaccination When your employer or PCBU enters your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR) the BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. A ll border workers , including those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports , and all of those who are contracted to provide services in the border environment , are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. Any border workers in roles affected by the Vaccinations Order must be vaccinated in order to continue with that work, unless they have an exemption or exception . The Order allows PCBUs to apply for a supply chain exemption for a named worker. The exemption came into force on 12 August 2021 . The Minister for COVID-19 Response decides if an exemption should be granted. Learn more about applying for a supply chain exemption | transport.govt.nz (external link) Guidance for PCBUs engaging with workers regarding vaccinations [PDF, 688 KB] COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Border worker testing | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 10:56 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Getting vaccinated against COVID-19 is required for people carrying out certain work at the border. Mandatory vaccinations for border and MIQ workers On 1 May 2021, the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 made it a requirement for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. From 15 July 2021, it also became a legal requirement for border workers in certain roles to be vaccinated. This is required by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Amendment Order 2021. Vaccines commonly administered overseas are now recognised for border workers that need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If a worker has had a full course of Moderna, AstraZeneca, Janssen or Pfizer, they can work on or around the border. To find out if a worker is affected Answer the following questions. Your results will tell you if a worker must get vaccinated, when by, and how to book their vaccinations. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 – Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register — Ministry of Health (external link) Resources for the border sector — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccines and the workplace — Employment New Zealand (external link)  Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. A fully vaccinated workforce will help keep your workplace safe from COVID-19. You can help workers make an informed decision and encourage them and their whānau to get the COVID-19 vaccine by: Information from Employment.govt.nz on vaccines and the workplace (external link) Your workers may have questions about the vaccine. You can help them find out more by: Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Sectors and business types where COVID-19 vaccinations are mandatory: If a business is only offering takeaway food and drink, then workers do not need to be vaccinated. Learn more about mandatory vaccinations for workers There may be religious or medical reasons why a person cannot be vaccinated. You cannot ask your worker to get vaccinated, unless they need to be vaccinated to perform a specific role in your business for health and safety reasons. You can ask employees if they have been vaccinated but they do not have to tell you if they have, or why they chose not to. You cannot discriminate against employees who choose not to get the vaccination. If your employees choose to tell you about their vaccination status, you cannot share this information with anyone without their permission. A person's vaccination status is personal information | employment.govt.nz (external link) The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. At certain traffic light settings, businesses and organisations are encouraged to use the app to check customers' My Vaccine Pass. Requirements will depend on the sector and the choices the business or organisation has made about how they will operate under the traffic light system. If you need technical help with the NZ Pass Verifier app, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 . When a business or organisation uses the app to scan your My Vaccine Pass, it will show a green tick – this confirms it is a valid pass. It also shows your name and date of birth. The verifier can request to see your ID to check it matches the details on the app. It is an offence for a business to sell the details from the My Vaccine Pass, or use the details for purposes outside the COVID-19 response. Any personal information collected – for example, that you have been verified – remains subject to the protections in the Privacy Act 2020. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) NZ Pass Verifier – Terms of use and privacy policy | health.govt.nz (external link) This toolkit contains information and resources to help workplaces, non-profit groups and other organisations to support COVID-19 vaccinations in their communities. The toolkit will help you to support the national vaccine and immunisation programme — and most importantly, ensure your people are protected from COVID-19. COVID-19 Vaccine Business and workplace toolkit (external link) Vaccines and the workplace — Employment New Zealand (external link) How to decide what work requires a vaccinated employee — Worksafe (external link) Vaccine posters, flyers and social media tiles Last updated: 5 December 2021 at 12:36 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. COVID-19 vaccination is free and available to everyone in Aotearoa aged 12 and over. The vaccine helps protect you, your whānau and your workmates. If you need support to get vaccinated — for example, taking time off to get your vaccination — talk to your employer. Your employer cannot ask you to get a vaccine, unless there are health and safety reasons you need it for your job. If there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, then employers can decide that certain work must be done by vaccinated workers. To determine this, your employer will need to assess the COVID-19 exposure risk in consultation with you. If it is found that certain work can only be done by vaccinated workers, then your employer must allow you reasonable time to get vaccinated. Workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings are required to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Sectors that have mandatory vaccinations include: Mandatory vaccinations for workers If you have any medical concerns about getting the vaccine, talk to your doctor. Some workplaces may take part in workplace vaccinations as part of the vaccine rollout. If your employer is eligible, they will let you know when they will be offering employee vaccinations. You may be able to get your vaccination through your workplace. Your employer may ask for proof of vaccination. In most situations, providing them with this information is voluntary (the exception being if you are required to be vaccinated as part of an Order). Your employer cannot discriminate against you if you choose not to get vaccinated. If you do tell your employer about your vaccination status, they must keep this information private. Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 10:57 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. What you need to know Find out what to expect if you test positive for COVID-19. This includes conversations with a health professional, contact tracers and deciding what support you need. If you test positive for COVID-19  Most people with COVID-19 are likely to have a mild to moderate illness. They will fully recover in their own home. Here is what you need to know about self-isolating at home. In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus from spreading. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and been released from isolation by a health professional, there’s a few things you should do. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 6:50 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Aotearoa New Zealand is now in the traffic light system, which has a new approach to how we manage COVID-19 in the community. Most people with COVID-19 are likely to have mild to moderate illness. They will be able to self-isolate and fully recover in their own home, or in suitable alternative accommodation, with support from local healthcare providers. Care in the community will provide you tailored support to manage your illness and reduce the chance of transmission to your family and your community. It is a model for people with COVID-19 and health providers to make sure the right support is provided and the whole whānau is prepared. More information will be available on this page as it becomes available. Everyone, whether you are vaccinated or unvaccinated, should prepare for what you need to do if you get COVID-19. Being ready for getting COVID-19 is about making sure you and your household have a plan and know what to do. It will mean your whānau and community can help each other if needed. Be prepared for COVID-19 COVID-19 Readiness Checklist [PDF, 121 KB] Anyone who has symptoms of COVID-19 should get a test, even if you are vaccinated. If you test positive, it is nothing to be embarrassed about. COVID-19 does not care who it infects. After you test positive, several things will happen. A health professional will contact you about your positive result and a team will start working on contact tracing. You will get a call to discuss where you will isolate and provide you with other things you need to know about being positive. When you should get a test How contact tracing works Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. You will get instructions and advice directly from a public health official that is specific to your individual situation and your needs. What to expect when self-isolating at home If you test positive, it is important you and your household gets the right care and support to recover and get back to living a normal life. When you are told you need to isolate, you will be asked if you need any support or help. Many people will be able to look after themselves or have support from friends and whānau. However, some people may need things like food and groceries. The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) is coordinating support, and connecting people with the right service to help them. Getting support if you have COVID-19 Financial support Community Care support if you get COVID-19 [PDF, 227 KB] Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 6:57 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. Think about whether you can work from home. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. You can also apply if you are self-employed. Your employer can also get this payment for you if you: You employer can get a one-off payment of $359 to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. Who is eligible for the Short-term Absence Payment | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (external link) If you have been asked by health officials to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. Your employer can also get this payment for you if you: Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. To be eligible for a one-week payment, you need to be self-isolating for at least four consecutive calendar days. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you have lost your job because you decide not to get the COVID-19 vaccination, Work and Income may be able to help. You can: You can get financial support from Work and Income regardless of your vaccination status. Support from Work and Income (external link) If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. The income levels for individuals to receive financial support from Work and Income has increased. This means that: The new income level limits will be in place until 28 February 2022. Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | msd.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Whānau Ora helps whānau access health and welfare services, and meet basic needs for food, accommodation, heating, internet connectivity, water and sewerage. You can contact Whānau Ora on: If you are a tertiary student, you can contact Studylink for advice. Studylink can also help with transport costs if you need help getting to a vaccination centre. COVID-19 information for students | studylink.govt.nz (external link) (external link) If you are worried about your mortgage repayments, talk to your bank or finance company about the options that are available to you. Work and Income can also help with o ther accommodation costs, or support to stay in your home — for example help with essential repairs or maintenance or with heating costs. Help with housing costs | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you are having trouble paying your rent due to COVID-19, let your landlord know straight away. You may be able to work together to agree on a repayment plan, or negotiate your rent for a period of time so you can stay in your home. Negotiating rent | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) (external link) If you have overdue rent and you are worried you will lose your housing, you can talk to Work and Income for support. Rent arrears assistance and how to apply | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Work and Income can also help with o ther accommodation costs, or support to stay in your home — for example help with essential repairs or maintenance or with heating costs. Help with housing costs | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Contact details of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission (external link) (external link) If you are an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available. Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 10:43 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you are self-isolating because you have COVID-19, or you have been identified as a Close Contact, and you need extra support, the Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can co-ordinate some support for you. You may already have someone to support you while you are self-isolating. If you do not, MSD can arrange a COVID-19 welfare guide for you. They could be from a community organisation, a government agency, a marae-based service or support established by iwi. It is important that you answer all calls when you are self-isolating, as your healthcare provider, MSD or another service may be trying to contact you. If you need support, you can call your COVID-19 welfare guide, if you have one, or the COVID-19 Welfare phone line on 0800 512 337 , 7 days a week. If you cannot manage with help from friends and family, your COVID-19 welfare guide and the COVID-19 welfare phone line can help you with: Support for if you get COVID-19 [PDF, 227 KB] Keep in contact with your friends and whānau, your healthcare provider, and your COVID-19 welfare guide if you have one. This means they can: We all need food and essential items such as medicine, so please do not try to go without. There are plenty of ways to get this to you. Remember to ask people to leave deliveries outside your home. They could text or ring the doorbell to let you know it is there. Some people may not feel comfortable asking for help, but it is best for you and the community if you do not try and face self-isolation alone. If you need medicines, talk to your doctor or your local pharmacy. They will arrange getting your medicines safely delivered to your home. Looking after your tamariki while you are self-isolating can be hard. During the school year, talk with your tamariki's school or childcare centre about whether they can do online learning or provide resources while they are self-isolating. They may also be able to help with devices. Ask your friends and whānau if they have games, books or puzzles your tamariki could use while they are self-isolating. It is important you look after yourself and reach out for help or support when you or your tamariki need it. When you are told you need to self-isolate, you will be asked about your living situation to find out if it is a suitable place for you to stay and self-isolate. If you are waiting for COVID-19 test results or you have been told to self-isolate, and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for financial support so that you can continue to get paid. While you are waiting for your test result, your employer may be able to apply for the Short-term Absence Payment. If you test positive for COVID-19 or have been told to self-isolate your employer may be able to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Financial support If you need personal care or help with daily tasks, your healthcare provider and COVID-19 welfare guide will work together to make sure your needs are met. There are a range of people to talk to if you need it. Where to get help | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) It is important you and your whānau are safe while you are self-isolating. If you are worried or just want to talk: Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 5:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you test positive for COVID-19 your doctor or a health professional will be in contact with you. They will explain what it means to have COVID-19 and what you need to do. It is nothing to be embarrassed about — it can happen to anyone. COVID-19 does not care who it infects. From this point on: You will need to provide details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. This is to help prevent further spread of COVID-19. This will be a call from a contact tracer. Their job is to find out where you might have caught it, and who else you might have exposed to the virus. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app, they will ask you to share your digital diary and talk you through the process. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, the contact tracer will ask if you want to send a Bluetooth alert. If you agree, they will talk you through the process. How contact tracing works Everyone who tests positive for COVID-19 and everyone who lives with them and their close contacts will need to isolate from the community to help stop the spread of the virus. You will get a call to discuss whether you are well set-up to isolate at home. If it is unsuitable, other options are available — this could be because of how severe your symptoms are or whether you are at-risk for complications. There are 2 ways to isolate, either: If you are very unwell, you will receive hospital care. What to expect when self-isolating at home What to expect if you go into managed isolation Anyone you live with will need to stay home for the entire time you and anyone else in your household who tests positive are isolating. Household members of a COVID-19 case are Close Contacts and will need to get a series of tests. Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 Once the last case has been released from isolation, the rest of your household will have a further 10 days in isolation. This means they will need to isolate for longer than you. If someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, those who have not tested positive within the last 6 months will have their isolation period extended. If you are travelling around the country and you test positive for COVID-19, there is a risk that you may not be able to return safely to your home to isolate. You will only be able to return home if you or a whānau member are able to drive. You will need to prepare for the possibility you will get COVID-19 while away from home before you go on holiday. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling You will have support from local healthcare providers to meet your health, welfare and wellbeing needs while you are recovering from COVID-19. A 24-hour contact phone number will be available for health support, and you will get a dedicated contact person to check on you and your whānau. Contacts for health support may differ across the country. Your point of contact may be an individual or a team from your general practice, primary care provider or from a local community health service. Your contact person will tell you how often they will be in contact to check on you. If you need medication, contact your doctor or your local community pharmacy who can get it safely delivered to your home. You may go into a MIQ facility which can meet your health and welfare needs and to prevent the risk of spreading COVID-19 in your whānau and community. Facility staff, including a dedicated health team, will check on your physical and mental health during your stay. The health team will confirm your treatment details with you – these are on a case-by-case basis. In some cases, people with COVID-19 become very unwell and need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. What to expect after you have had COVID-19 Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 1:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. While vaccination is highly effective, it is still possible to get COVID-19. You may get it while you are away from home, even if you are following the rules. You should prepare for what you may need to do if this happens. Make a plan for how to get home to isolate, if you can travel there safely. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you will need to think about: The people you are travelling with, whether it is friends or whānau, will need to be prepared for what might happen. You should talk through the plan together. If you have travelled to your destination on public transport, for example ferry or plane, it is likely you will need to stay at that location for your isolation period. Common symptoms of COVID-19 are like those found with illnesses such as a cold or flu. If you have these symptoms when you are on holiday, it is important that you get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home to get tested. If you become unwell or have been exposed to COVID-19 while you are away from home, you should: Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) COVID-19 symptoms Close Contacts Casual and Casual Plus Contacts Many community based testing centres will be closed on public holidays. The most important thing to do is to call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or check Healthpoint for opening hours of a community testing centre. Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) A health professional will be in contact with you. You will be able to discuss with them what you need to do and whether it is safe for you to travel home. You will not be able to: If you need urgent medical help or are having difficulties breathing, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19. If you test positive for COVID-19 You will need to tell the owner or operator of your holiday accommodation whether you are a contact of a case or if you have tested positive. This will allow them to make sure the property is safe for the next booking. If you are a contact and your test is negative, you should tell your accommodation provider you are not a COVID-19 case. If you are travelling around the country, there is a risk that you may not be able to return safely to your home to isolate. You will have to remain in place. You will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. If you are unable to get home, you will need to think about: If you are unable to return home safely and you can isolate at your accommodation, you will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines: What to expect from self-isolation You will only be able to return home if you or someone you are travelling with are able to drive. You must not use public transport or undertake any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. You must drive directly to your home, making as few stops as possible. You need to minimise your contact with others. Remember to: If you are borrowing or renting a car, you will need to tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle thoroughly afterwards. Once you are home, a health professional will tell you what to do, and you will be able to follow the self-isolation guidance. Anyone travelling with you is a close contact and will need to know what to do: What to expect from self-isolation Close Contacts Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 3:54 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Most transmission of COVID-19 occurs through close contact with an infected person when they cough or sneeze. Although less likely, infection can still occur if someone touches a contaminated object or surface, then touches their mouth, nose, or eyes. The virus can survive on surfaces for a limited time. But it has a fragile outer membrane making it easy to kill through effective cleaning and disinfection. Where there has been a confirmed case of COVID-19, the virus is more likely to be found on surfaces. All surfaces should be cleaned and disinfected. You should wait at least 12 hours before cleaning and disinfecting your home after you or someone in your household has recovered from COVID-19. You can use regular household cleaning products like detergents or bleach to clean your home. Clean surfaces with detergent first, then use a disinfectant. You can vacuum as usual. Make sure you: Start with higher surfaces and work your way down so that any dust or dirt that falls to the ground is swept up. Clean surfaces that are less frequently touched first. Avoid going from a room that is not clean to one that is clean to prevent cross-contamination. To reduce the possibility of spreading the virus through the air, do not shake dirty laundry. Wash clothing and bedding according to the manufacturer’s instructions – use warm water and dry them completely. General cleaning and disinfection advice | health.govt.nz (external link) You must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag. This bag can then go into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag. That bag can then go into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. It is best to wait at least 4 weeks after you recover. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is rare, especially when you are vaccinated, but it is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. But some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. For support with management and treatment of Long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about Long COVID on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 11:11 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you test positive for COVID-19, your doctor or a health professional will call you to discuss: In MIQ, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus from spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise, they will need to self-isolate at home. MIQ facilities are hotels around New Zealand where you can isolate. There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. Financial support If it is more suitable for you to go into MIQ, you will move as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus from spreading to others, and make sure you are well looked after. The staff at the facility are well-trained in cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Staff will closely watch your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will help you make arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It is up to you and your whānau and household to decide: A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. Information for people entering MIQ due to the community outbreak | miq.govt.nz (external link) If you have pets that will need to be looked after while you are away from home, you will have time to make these arrangements.  On arrival, you will get a 'welcome pack' with information about what to expect during your stay. You will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments, so you do not need to leave to get supplies. There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) If you are unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to the hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in MIQ, or any COVID-19 related medical costs. The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that did not need hospital care, this will be: If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be on a case-by-case basis. What to expect after you have had COVID-19 Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 12:16 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you test positive for COVID-19, your doctor or a health professional will call you to discuss: You will need to isolate for at least 10 days while you recover from COVID-19 and be symptom-free for 72 hours. This can be in your home or suitable alternative accommodation. This could be another property that you have access to, or are provided, that is more suitable for self-isolation than where you usually live. You can self-isolate there instead. Anyone you live with will need to stay home for the entire time you are isolating. If someone else in your household tests positive for COVID-19, you will be advised on how much longer you need to isolate for. While you are isolating at home, you will have a dedicated contact person check up on you and make sure that you and your whānau are safe. It is normal to feel nervous or unsure about what the next few weeks will look like. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. You will get instructions and advice directly from a public health official that is specific to your individual situation and your needs. Your health, welfare and wellbeing needs will be discussed with immediate supports and information provided. This could be with your doctor, a social and wellbeing provider, a kaupapa Māori or Pacific provider, or the public health unit. You will get a care pack with advice on looking after yourself and supporting your recovery. It may include a pulse oximeter if you need one. How often you receive health and wellbeing checks while you are self-isolating will depend on your symptoms and recovery. If you have moderate symptoms or are more at risk, you will get a virtual health check, like a phone call, from your health provider every day. If you are at low risk of experiencing severe COVID-19 infection and only have mild symptoms, you will get a virtual health check every second day. If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. The people who live in your house will need to be tested regularly to check if they have COVID-19. You will get information on when, how and where this needs to happen. Close Contacts You will have a health assessment by a medical practitioner at 10 to 14 days. The timing of this depends on if you are vaccinated. You will need to be symptom free for the 72 hours before your isolation release date and continue to have no symptoms. If approved by the medical practitioner, you will be able to leave your house the next day. You do not need to be tested. If you did, the result would likely show as positive but that does not mean you are infectious. Anyone you live with will need to stay home for the entire time you and anyone else in your household who tests positive are isolating. Once the last case has been released from isolation, the rest of your household will have a further 10 days in isolation. This means they will need to isolate for longer than you. Your health contact will continue to check in on them during this time. If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. In some cases, people with COVID-19 become very unwell and need to be admitted to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you had a more severe illness and require hospital care, you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis by a health professional. Pay attention to how you are feeling and look out for worsening symptoms. If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. Care in the Community: Self-isolating timeline [PDF, 90 KB] It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. Looking after your mental wellbeing If you need help or financial support, there are several options available while you are self-isolating. Financial support Getting support if you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating After you have recovered from COVID-19 and are released from isolation by a health professional, there are a few things you should do. What to expect after you have had COVID-19 Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 9:52 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Find COVID-19 information in your language, accessible formats and download posters and resources for your business or household. Information and advice translated into different languages. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Get your household and business traffic light ready by downloading our posters and resources. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Our COVID-19 information is currently under review and will be updated as soon as possible. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. Order information about COVID-19 in braille format. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. An audio description adds an audio track to videos to describe essential information that is only presented visually on the screen. Audio descriptions help people who: Find out more about audio description (external link) Find out more about the COVID-19 vaccine Find out why it is important to wear a face covering Find out about Bluetooth tracing and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. Last updated: 16 November 2021 at 12:16 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you need content in braille, please contact Blind Citizens NZ. Last updated: 31 May 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Information in Easy Read format. This page has lots of links to Easy Read information. Scroll down the page and click the boxes below to find more information. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Find out more about the COVID-19 virus Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you get your vaccine Find out what you need to do if you are travelling to and from New Zealand The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19 Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 9:40 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 vaccination record card has been updated. The new design has one of the corners cut. You may still receive the old design while vaccination centres use up stock. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 4:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 16 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation.    Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 16 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 8 December 2021 at 11:46 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation.  Last updated: 9 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation.   Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 9 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines Find out more about the COVID-19 virus Find out what you need to do if you are travelling quarantine-free to and from New Zealand The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19 Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 10:03 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 2:06 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. As of 24 July 2021, quarantine-free travel with Australia has been suspended . Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) Find out more about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you get your vaccine Find out what you need to do in NZSL if you are travelling to and from New Zealand The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out what support you can get to look after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. Last updated: 14 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Getting the right information (external link) The Delta variant (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. COVID-19 vaccines (external link) COVID-19 vaccine simplified guide (external link) Change to the recommended vaccine dose gap (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) Last updated: 14 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Services and support (external link) Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It is OK to ask for help (external link) It is OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) Last updated: 4 October 2021 at 12:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Face coverings and masks (external link) Why we wear a mask or face covering on planes and public transport (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Self-isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Simple steps you can take (external link) Getting tested (external link) Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app: how contact tracing keeps us safe (external link) Bluetooth Tracing: Early Warning (external link) Locations of interest (external link) Last updated: 6 October 2021 at 3:22 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Introduction to the COVID-19 Protection Framework (external link) Life at Red (external link) Life at Orange (external link) Life at Green (external link) My Covid Record (external link) My Vaccine Pass (external link) International Travel Vaccination Certificates (external link) Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 3:49 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. How does quarantine-free travel work? (external link) Quarantine-free travel from Australia has been suspended (external link) Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free (external link)  Last updated: 14 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Get your household and business traffic light ready by downloading our posters and resources. You can view and download all our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. We have included a selection of posters here to help you get your business ready for the traffic light system. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free C OVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz  Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. Find out more about My Vaccine Pass All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster Get a QR code poster for your home (external link) We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 8:39 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te tāpui i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapua he kōrero me aha koe ina haere atu ana i Aotearoa, hoki mai ana rānei Rapua he kōrero atu anō mō te KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero me pēhea te tiaki i a koutou ko tō hapori mai i te KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero mō te whakatewhatewha pānga me ngā wāhi whaipānga Ka whakakapi te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19 i te pūnaha Taumata Whakatūpato onāianei e whakamahia ana e te kāwanatanga hei urupare ki te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Rapua ngā rauemi mō te KOWHEORI-19 i Te Reo Māori Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 4:49 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Kimihia ngā mōhiohio mō te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki hei te wā o te urutā KOWHEORI-19. Kei te hiahia tātou katoa ki te kai me ngā mea waiwai pērā i te rongoā i ngā wā o te rāhuitanga KOWHEORI-19, nō reira kaua e whakatiki i a koe. Kei tēnei pārongo ngā mōhiohio mō ngā huarahi maha e whiwhi kai ai, e whiwhi mea waiwai ai koe. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. Last updated: 1 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Rapua he kōrero mō te whakatewhatewha pānga me ngā wāhi whaipānga Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) Last updated: 28 October 2021 at 4:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ina puta he take hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, ka whakahoutia e Te Manatū Hauora tana pae tukutuku ki ngā wāhi i kitea ētahi kēhi tūturu o te KOWHEORI-19, ā ka kīia ēnei he ʻWāhi Whaipānga’. He mea nui tonu kia hihiratia mēnā i tae koe ki tētahi wāhi whaipānga i te wā i whakatauhia. Mēnā i tae koe, ka tuhia ngā mōhiohio i te taha o ia wāhi whaipānga o ngā mahi hei whai māhau. Ko ngā mahi me mahi koe kei te āhua o te mōrearea whakaraerae i ia wāhi. Mēnā kāore koe i tae ki tētahi o aua wāhi, ka tae kē atu ki tētahi o aua wāhi engari kīhai i reira i te wā i whakatauhia, me aroturuki koe i tō hauora, ā, me haere kia whakamātauria anake mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ētahi tohumate.  Ngā wāhi whaipānga (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. Last updated: 28 October 2021 at 3:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ka whakakapi te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19 i te pūnaha Taumata Whakatūpato onāianei e whakamahia ana e te kāwanatanga hei urupare ki te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. Rapua he kōrero mō te whakamahi i te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record, te wāhi e taea ai e koe te whakauru atu ki ngā mōhiohio mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Rapu me pēhea te whakaatu i tō taunakitanga tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ina haere koe ki tāwāhi. He taupānga koreutu te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ka taea e ngā umanga, ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga te whakamahi hei matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ka whakakapi te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19 i te pūnaha Taumata Whakatūpato onāianei e whakamahia ana e te kāwanatanga hei urupare ki te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. He whakamahi i tētahi aronga 3 taumata hei whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori: Ka taea e tātau te whakapiki ngā taumata ina hiahiatia ana hei whakahaere i ngā urutā. He ngāwari ake te pou tarāwaho i te pūnaha Taumata Whakatūpato onāianei. He nui ake te herekore o te hunga kua whiwhi kano ārai mate. I ngā taumata katoa, ka noho tuwhera te nuinga o ngā pakihi, ngā toa hokohoko me ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui ki te hunga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko ngā pakihi ka tuwhera anake ki ngā kiritaki whiwhi kano ārai mate he iti iho te mōrea. Ka haere tonu ngā aromatawai, whaiwhai i te pātanga me te noho taratahi hei tikanga hira mō te whakaiti i te hōrapa o te huaketo. Ka whakamahia tonutia ngā rāhui ā-rohe mēnā ka tere piki ngā kēhi. Tērā pea ka mate tonu ki te whakamahi i ngā rāhui whānui ake. Hei neke i waenga taumata, ka whakaarohia e mātau te: He tikanga matatapu te tiwhikete kano ārai mate hei whakaatu kua whiwhi koe i ngā kano ārai mate katoa. He kōwhiringa te whai tiwhikete kano ārai mate mō ngā wāhi maha. Kei reira pea ētahi wāhi mōrea nui ake e hiahiatia ana ērā kia tuwhera ai ki te iwi whānui. Ka kōwhiri pea ngā pakihi, huihuinga, whakahaere, hapori me ngā tūmomo rāngai ki te whakauru mai i ngā whakaritenga kuhunga kano ārai mate e ai ki te ture mā ngā kiritaki. Mēnā kāore e hiahia ana tētahi pakihi, whakahaere, ratonga rānei ki te tono whakaaturanga kano ārai mate, me whakahaere rānei i raro i ngā tikanga tino whāiti mō ngā whakaritenga tokomaha me te whānui. Tērā pea ka mate rātau ki te kati i ngā taumata Karaka , Whero hoki/rānei. Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa 12 tau, pakeke atu rānei te uru ki ā rātau pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mā tētahi paetukutuku e kīia ana ko My Covid Record. I konei ka taea e koe te tikiake ngā tiwhikete kano ārai mate matihiko ā-motu, ā-ao me te kimi i ō otinga aromatawai KOWHEORI-19. My Covid Record (external link) Ko te Kākāriki kei roto ētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, me ētahi kēhi nō tāwāhi. Ka whāiti te rere ā-hapori, ā, ka taea te whakahaere te hunga kei rō hōhipera nā te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mataara te pūnaha hauora ki te urupare, tae atu ki ngā hauora matua, hauora tūmatanui, me ngā hōhipera. I te Karaka , ka nui haere te rere ā-hapori e pēhi ana i tā tātau pūnaha hauora. Ka aro ngā rawa katoa o te pūnaha hauora whānui, engari ka taea tonu te whakahaere te hauora matua, hauora tūmatanui, hōhipera hoki. Ka piki haere anō pea te mōrea mō te hunga noho mōrea. I te Whero , me tahuri ki te whakamaru i te hunga noho mōrea me te whakamaru i tā tātau pūnaha hauora kei pokea e te tokomaha rawa o te tāngata e uru ana ki rō hōhipera. Kia tino whai hua te noho i Aotearoa, me whiwhi kano ārai i tēnei rā. Mēnā kua whiwhi kano ārai mate, me whakapau kaha koe ki te āwhina i ō hoa me tō whānau ki te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia tere ake ai te pārekareka o ō tātau rā katoa i roto i te pūnaha hou. BookMyVaccine (external link) Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 4:33 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. I te Karaka, ka taea e koe te mahi tonu i ngā mahi ia rā, ā, ka taea e koe te hāereere i te motu. Ka taea e koe te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura, ki ngā whare whakapakari tinana, te whare karakia, ngā whare kai, me ētahi atu wāhi huhua. Tērā ētahi herenga i runga i ētahi mahi hei pupuru i te i te horanga o te huaketo me te tiaki i te hunga whakaraerae. Ka taea e te nuinga o ngā pakihi te whakatuwhera me te kore herenga i runga i ngā tatauranga mēnā ka kōwhiri rātou ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Ina kore rātou e kōwhiri ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, he herenga i runga i te maha o ngā tāngata i te wāhi kotahi. I raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru Kowheori-19, kua kore katoa ngā mirumiru kāinga. Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Karaka me mau ārai kanohi koe: E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e nga pakihi me nga wāhi mahi te huaki i te Karaka. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Karaka, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Karaka. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau i te whare herehere, engari me ētahi herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Karaka. Me mau ārai kanohi ngā ākonga katoa o te Tau 4, piki atu hoki, i rō whare, ā, i te wā e tū tata ana ki ētahi atu. Me mau ārai kanohi ngā kaimahi me ngā kaiako i te wā e whakaako ana, e tautoko ana rānei i ngā tamariki Tau 4, piki ake. E akiakitia ana ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, te whānau, me ētahi atu manuhiri katoa ki te mau ārai kanohi i te kura. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho taratahi, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Karaka, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka haere koe ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Karaka . Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 10:14 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. He herenga kei runga i ngā wāhi e taea e tātou te haere ake i te Whero. Engari tērā anō ngā mahi o ia rā ka taea e tātou katoa. Ka taea e tātou te tūtataki ki ngā hoa me te whānau, i roto, i waho hoki, te haere ki te hoko taputapu, te haere ki te kura me te hāereere. Mā te whiwhi kano ārai mate e nui ake ai tō āraitanga. Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Whero me mau ārai kanohi koe: E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e ngā wāhi mahi te huaki i te Whero. Mēnā e tika ana mō tō mahi, ka taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga. Kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi mō te āhuatanga e tika ana mōu. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Whero, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Whero. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau me te kore herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Whero. Me mau ārai kanohi ngā ākonga katoa o te Tau 4, piki atu hoki, i rō whare, ā, i te wā e tū tata ana ki ētahi atu. Me mau ārai kanohi ngā kaimahi me ngā kaiako i te wā e whakaako ana, e tautoko ana rānei i ngā tamariki Tau 4, piki ake. E akiakitia ana ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, te whānau, me ētahi atu manuhiri katoa ki te mau ārai kanohi i te kura. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho whakamohoao, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura mātauranga. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Whero, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka āhei koe ki te haere i ngā wāhi katoa ahakoa he aha te take i te Whero. Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111. Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 4:32 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Rapua he kōrero atu anō mō te KOWHEORI-19 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Last updated: 10 November 2021 at 3:42 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: I tētahi wā pēnei: Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) Last updated: 14 September 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. Kua tere te hora puta noa i te ao o te momo Delta, ā, koinei tonu te momo matua i ngā whenua maha. Koinei te taurangi mama rawa ki te whakawhiti, otirā he māmā ake tana horanga ki tērā o te momo tuatahi o te wheori KOWHEORI-19, me ētahi atu momo taurangi. He rerekē te Delta i te mea mō ngā tāngata e pāngia ana: Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. I tēnei wā e whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga, he 88% te whaihuatanga o ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te mate i te pokenga Delta. Ko te āraitanga i te urunga ki te hōhipera nā te pokenga Delta, he āhua 96%. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Last updated: 28 October 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Whāia ōu tapuwae [PDF, 125 KB] Track your journey Kia haumaru te haere [PDF, 120 KB] Travel safely Ngā ratonga me ngā tautoko [PDF, 151 KB] Services and support Te toro atu ki ngā kai, ki ngā mea waiwai rānei [PDF, 75 KB] Access to food or essential items Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: Rapua ngā meka [PDF, 270 KB] COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Rapua he kōrero me pēhea te tiaki i a koutou ko tō hapori mai i te KOWHEORI-19 Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o ngā pata i te wā e kōrero ana, e kata ana, e maremare ana, e matihe ana hoki te tangata. Ka hāngai hoki ki tēnei ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 engari e ora ana te āhua, otirā kāore he tohumate mārama. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. E akiaki ana mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā kāore e taea te tū tawhiti atu i tētahi atu, hei tauira, i ngā wāhi kōpā i rō whare. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā ko koe te kaihautū o tētahi: Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā: E akiaki ana mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: Me mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā he kaimahi koe e whai pānga ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei e mahi ana i te Pae Mataara 3. Me mau ārai kanohi koe mēnā e mahi ana koe i: E akiaki ana mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: Me mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā he kaimahi koe e whai pānga ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei e mahi ana i te Pae Mataara 4. Me mau ārai kanohi koe mēnā e mahi ana koe i: E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Kia mahara koe ki tēnei āhuatanga. E whai āheinga tonu ana rātou ki ngā ratonga kai, kēmehi me ētahi atu ratonga. Mēnā e taea ana, ka akiakitia koe ki te mau i tētahi ārai kanohi. Ko te mau ārai kanohi kāore e hiahiatia: Kāore hoki koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā: E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mau i tētahi, ka taea e koe te tiki kāri awere. Ka taea e koe te whakaatu i tō kāri awere i ngā wā e hiahia ana. Ka taea e koe te tono kāri i te Disabled Persons Assembly NZ mā te whakapā atu ki a rātou i 04 801 9100 i info@dpa.org.nz rānei. Last updated: 31 March 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. Last updated: 14 September 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. Last updated: 14 September 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te tāpui i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapua he kōrero mō te whakamahi i te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record, te wāhi e taea ai e koe te whakauru atu ki ngā mōhiohio mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Rapu me pēhea te whakaatu i tō taunakitanga tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ina haere koe ki tāwāhi. He taupānga koreutu te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ka taea e ngā umanga, ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga te whakamahi hei matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Kia tae ki tō wā, ka taea e koe te tāpui i ō toronga kano ārai mate mā te ipurangi, mā te waea rānei. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui.  Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka nui ake pea ngā uruparenga i muri i te kainga tuarua o te rongoā ārai mate. Ka pāngia pea e ngā uruparenga kino rawa, engari, ruarua noa iho ngā wā e pēnei ana. Kua whakangungua ngā kaituku rongoā ārai mate ki te whakatikatika, te āwhina hoki ina pāngia te tangata e ēnei āhuatanga. Nā ngā uruparenga ka pāngia pea mō te wā poto tō āhei ki te taraiwa, te whakamahi rānei i ngā pūrere. Ki te puta tēnei āhuatanga, tēnā, kōrero ki tō kaitukumahi. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e whai pānga ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, pērā ki te maremare mutunga kore, he kirikā, he rerekē, ka ngaro rānei tō rongo ā-waha, ā-ihu rānei, me noho koe ki te kāinga ka whakamātauria ki te whakamātau KOWHEORI-19. Ki te raru pokanoa koe ki te wero KOWHEORI-19, me tuku pūrongo tō kaiwero ārai mate, mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E taea ai hoki te whakapūrongo i ngā uruparenga pokanoa ki tō rātou puka pūrongo ā-ipurangi kei runga i te paetukutuku o CARM otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mehemea kāore koe i te tino mōhio he aha te tikanga o ngā tohumate, ki te kaha ake rānei, me kōrero ki tō Tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mehemea kei te āwangawanga koe ki tō haumarutanga, waea atu ki 111 me te maumahara ki te kī atu kua whiwhi koe i tō wero ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai i a koe. He mea tiaki hoki te rongoā ārai mate i te tangata katoa ahakoa te pakeke ki ngā mate mau noa hoki, pērā ki te karawaka me te rewharewha. Tirohia kua whiwhi katoa koutou ko tō whānau i ngā wero ārai mate mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Me haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu kōrero. Me tatari mō te rua wiki rawa i muri i tō kainga tuarua o te wero KOWHEORI-19 i mua i ētahi atu wero ārai mate. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Ko te huarahi tere rawa o te whakarite i ō toronga kano ārai mate, ko te tāpui ā-tuihono mā Book My Vaccine (external link) . Mēnā kāore anō koe kia māraurau ki te tāpui, ka taea e koe te rēhita kia pai ai tā mātou whakamōhio atu i a koe i te wā tika mōu ki te tāpui. Ka āhua 5 mineti pea te roa o te tāpui ā-tuihono. Mēnā ka pā ētahi raruraru tāpui, e hiahia ana rānei koe ki te panoni i ō taipitopito, ka taea e koe te īmēra mai ki te rōpū o Book My Vaccine. Īmēra: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Book My Vaccine (external link) Ka taea e koe te tāpui mā te waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Me tatari pea koe i mua i te whakaututanga o tō waea, i te mea ka pokea ngā waea — kia manawanui mai. Kia whakautua tō waea, ka āhua 15 mineti ka pau ki te tāpui i ō toronga. Kia waea mai koe, he pai tonu mēnā e rite ana tō tau NHI (Taupū Hauora ā-Motu). Mā tēnei e tere ake ai te tukanga tāpui. Ka kitea tō tau NHI i runga i tētahi whakahau rongoā, tētahi hua whakamātau, whakaahua hihi-x, tētahi reta rānei mai i te hōhipera. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, me whakarite toronga anō. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia ora mai koe. Mēnā he tohumate āu o te KOWHEORI-19, haere kia whakamātautauria, ā, noho ki te kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō i ō hua. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia puta rā anō te whakamātautau e kī ana kāore koe i te pāngia ki te mate. I tua atu i te tāpui toronga, tērā ētahi atu huarahi e whiwhi ai te tangata i ngā kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate i te wāhi mahi me ētahi atu kaupapa kano ārai mate motuhake puta noa i te motu. Mō ētahi hapori tuawhenua mamao, ka tuku mātou i ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā reanga katoa i te wā kotahi kia māmā ake ai mō rātou. He nui hoki ngā tākuta e whakarato ana i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ā, whakarite tōtika ana i ngā tāpuitanga. Kia mōhio ai mēnā e tuku ana tō tākuta i tēnei ratonga, haere ki Healthpoint. Kano ārai mate COVID-19 — Healthpoint (external link) Last updated: 29 October 2021 at 2:30 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 12 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) Last updated: 20 August 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene, ā, ka tiakina tō matataputanga. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. I konei koe ka kite i ngā mōhiohio whaitake o te hunga e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate, tae atu ki ngā āhuatanga pēnei i tō pakeke, mēnā e hapū ana, e whāngote ana rānei, mēnā he pānga pāwera tāu ki te kano ārai mate i mua, mēnā rānei he tūmomo mate mauroa tāhau. E kore e taea e ngā tāngata i raro i te 12 tau te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i tēnei wā. Ko ngā whakaaturanga mai o te kano ārai mate, he tino whaihua, haumaru hoki mā ngā tāngata pakeke ake i te 65 tau. E pai ana mā te hunga kaimanga. Kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Kāore hoki he paturopi, he hua toto, he DNA, he pūmua, he matū kōpū, he kurutene, he hua poaka, he tāroki, he hoi, kāore rānei he latex (i hangaia mai te taupoki ipuipu i te rapa horihori - bromobutyl). Rapua te rārangi whakauru nui o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer (external link) Mēnā e hapū ana koe, ka taea e koe tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā wāhanga hapūtanga katoa. E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga mai i te maha o ngā tāngata hapū kua whiwhi kē i te kano ārai mate i te ao, kāore he māharahara haumaru tāpiri o te tuku i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka whai hua pea te pēpi mai i te tuku kano ārai mate i te hapūtanga, i te mea he taunakitanga e whakaatu ana i te tukunga o te paturopi i te toto taura me te waiū, e tuku ana pea i te āraitanga ki ngā pēpi mā te awhikiri taupoto. Mēnā he pātai āu, māharahara rānei, kōrerotia ki tō mātanga hauora. Mēnā e whakaaro ana koe i tētahi hapūtanga ka taea tonu e koe te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore e pā kinotia ō ira, tō matahua rānei e te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore te mRNA mai i te kano ārai mate e kuhu ki te karihi o ngā ira, te wāhi o tō DNA. Kāore he wāhanga o te kano ārai mate, o te pūmua koikoi rānei ka hua mai, e tae ki te wharekano, ngā raho rānei. Mēnā i pā tētahi pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrerotia atu tēnei ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora, kaituku kano rānei. Kaua e haere ki te tiki kano ārai mēnā he hītori tāu o te whai tauhohe pāwera tino taumaha: He aha kei roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, e aua atu te mate kirikā i te 38°C, me whakatārewa e koe tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia ora mai ai koe. Kāore e taea e koe te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e whiwhi ana koe i ētahi atu kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō tētahi wā, i runga anō i te āhua o te kano ārai mate. Tatari mō te 2 wiki i waenga i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te kano ārai mate rewharewha. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā wehenga o ēnei werohanga e rua. Ka taea e koe te kano ārai mate rewharewha atu i te 2 wiki i muri i tō werohanga tuarua. Mēnā kāore ō toronga whakarite mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, tīkina tō kano ārai mate rewharewha i te tuatahi. Ka taea e koe tō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 tuatahi i te 2 wiki i muri mai o tēnei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā i waenga i ēnei werohanga e rua. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 2 wiki i muri o te werohanga tuarua, i mua o tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate MMR. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate MMR i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 4 wiki i mua i tō whiwhinga i te werohanga tuatahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. Ka taea e koe te āheinga wawe ki te kano ārai mate mēnā kei tua koe o te 16 tau, ā, ka ea i a koe tētahi, ētahi rānei o ngā paearu nei: Mō ētahi atu tohutohu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te wā e pāngia ana e ngā mate taumaha, e whiwhi maimoatanga ana, mātaitanga, kai rongoā rānei, tēnā haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Kupu tohutohu kano ārai mate mā ngā rōpū motuhake me ngā tūmate hauora - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Last updated: 20 August 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, kua whiwhi i tētahi pota kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Ka whai ēnei tiwhikete i ngā paerewa Tiwhikete Matihiko KOWHEORI a te EU. He rerekē pea ngā herenga o ētahi atu whenua. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi tēnā tirohia ngā herenga o te whenua e haere atu nā koe. Me whai hoki koe i ngā tukanga manene noa mō te whenua e haere nā koe. Ka hiahiatia pea ētahi atu whāinga, pēnei i te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu, e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. He waehere QR kei tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere, ka matawaitia i te wā e hāereere ana koe. Kei roto ngā taipitopito o ngā werohanga ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whiwhi koe i Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te puri i tēnei tiwhikete ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mana tēnei tiwhikete mō te 12 marama. Me ōrite ngā taipitopito o tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere ki ō tō puka uruwhenua. Ka taea te tirotiro i ō taipitopito whaiaro i te wā e tono ana koe i te tiwhikete. He tere, māmā hoki te tono i tō tiwhikete. Ka īmēratia atu tō tiwhikete ki a koe i te 24 hāora. Ko te huarahi tere rawa e whiwhi ai koe i tō tiwhikete, mā te My Covid Record. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te rōpū o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Ka taea anake e koe te whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere mēnā i werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi, me tono koe i tētahi tiwhikete mai i taua whenua, e taea ai e koe te puta ki waho o Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki ō pota e rua i tāwāhi, e kore rawa koe e whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere i Aotearoa. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 12:51 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: I ahu mai ngā mōhiohio i tō My Covid Record i ngā raraunga e puritia ana i te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI ā-motu (CIR). He take nui ki a mātou tō tūmataititanga. Ko koe anake ka āhei atu ki tō My Covid Record, otirā he haumaru. Me manatoko rā anō tō pūkete mā tētahi tohu tuakiri whaimana. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te My Vaccine Pass Rapua he kōrero anō mō te Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E taea ana e te hunga katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, te hono ake. Hei whakamahi i te My Covid Record: Ki te kore e taea e koe te uru atu ki My Covid Record mā tō tohu tuakiri o te wā nei, kāore rānei i a koe tētahi o ngā momo tohu tuakiri e whakaaetia ana, ka taea te whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora, e whiwhi ai koe i tētahi Kōkota Kano Ārai. Whakaritea mai tō nama NHI - tērā pea ka pātaitia koe ki ētahi pātai hei whakaū i tō tuakiri, pēnei i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te tira o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 12:41 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, ka āhei koe ki te uru atu ki ētahi kaupapa me ētahi wāhi e whakahaere kaupapa ana i raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 (pūnaha rama toru). E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki te whānuitanga o ngā taiopenga, ngā wāhi me ngā taiao tūmatanui. Ko ēnei pea ko ngā: Ka matawai te pakihi/taiopenga/wāhi i te waehere QR i runga i tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mā te taupānga manatoko tohu. Mā tēnei taupānga i whakaū i tō tūnga kano ārai. Ka tonoa pea koe ki te whakaatu i tō tuakiri ki te whakaū mēnā nāu tonu te tohu. E kore te taupānga e puri i ō raraunga. E kore e whakaaturia ētahi atu mōhiohio i tua atu i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Tohu o Aotearoa E kore koe e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i te: E kore e taea te whakamahi i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mō te haere ki tāwāhi. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi atu whenua, me tono koe i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 12:49 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ka taea te whakamahi i te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ki te hihira i te ūnga kano ārai mate o te tangata. Me whai ipurangi ki te tikiake i te taupānga i te tuatahi, me te matawai tuatahi hoki. Hei muri i tērā, ka taea e te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa te matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai me te kore hononga ki te ipurangi, engari me hono ki te ipurangi i ngā wā auau ki te whakarite e taea ai e ia te manatoko i ngā My Vaccine Passes e whaimana ana. Kāore e taea te whakamahi i te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa hei matawai i ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāreere. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero mō te My Vaccine Pass Tīkina ake te taupānga mā te App Store (external link) Tīkina ake te taupānga mā Google Play (external link) Ina tikiake koe i te taupānga, me te whakaae ki ngā ture whakamahi, me: E hiahiatia ana e te taupānga NZ Pass Verifier ngā whakaaetanga kāmera kia taea ai te matawai i ngā waehere QR My Vaccine Pass. Ka tono te taupānga i tēnei whakaaetanga ina tīmata koe ki te matawai. Hei matawai i tētahi kōkota, pāwhiri i te pātene ‘Scan’. Mā tēnei e whakaatu te mata matawai. Tohua tō waea ki te waehere QR i te kōkota kia uru ki te rohe heipū o tō mata. Ko te kōkota whaimana ka whakaatu i te ingoa me te rā whānau o te tangata (e whakaatu ana i runga i te Kōkota Kano Ārai) tae atu ki te tohu whakaae kākāriki me te kupu ‘valid’. Mēnā kāore te Kōkota Kano Ārai o Aotearoa e whaimana, mā te taupānga e kī ake he aha ai. Ākene pea nā te mea: Hei matawai i tētahi atu kōkota, patohia te pātene ‘Scan again’, me miri whakararo rānei i te mata otinga ki te whakakore. Kāore te matawai i te Kōkota e whāki atu mēnā kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua, kāore rānei - engari ka whāki mēnā kua tutuki ngā herenga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ma tēnei e pupuri te tūmataitinga o te hunga tē āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate nā ngā take hauora. Tērā pea kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate, he tohu whakawātea ā-hauora rānei tāna (he iti noa te hunga o Aotearoa ka whiwhi i tēnei). Ki te hiahia āwhina koe ki te taupānga, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki te rōpū motuhake i Te Manatū Hauora. Īmēra VerifierTechHelp@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea ki 0800 800 606 Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 12:54 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Rapua ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate me ngā āhuatanga me whai ina pā ki a koe. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Kāore i pēnei rawa te nui o te mahi tahi ā-ao i waenganui i ngā kaipūtaiao me ngā kāwanatanga i te whanaketanga kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei i tere ake ai te whanaketanga o te kano ārai mate, ngā whakamātautau haumanu me ngā whakaaetanga puta noa i te ao. I tere tonu te whanaketanga o ngā kano ārai mate engari kāore i whāia ngā pokatata i ngā tukanga matea, te whakamōrea rānei i te haumarutanga. I taea e ngā kairangahau te whakamahi i ō rātou mōhiotanga o ētahi atu huaketo korona me te whanaketanga kano ārai mate e ahu whakamua ai rātou. I taea hoki e ngā whakamātautau haumanu te kimi wawe i ngā kaitūao huhua nā te aronga nui me te māharahara o te ao whānui ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ētahi whakamātautau haumanu ka taea te mahi ngātahi, kaua i te huarahi raupapa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, ka taea wawe e ngā kaipūtaiao te whakatau mēnā i whaihua te kano ārai mate i te wā poto - otirā i ngā āhuatanga auau, ka hia marama, tau rānei te roa o tēnei mahi. Kua tū ngā whare whakanao nui, e taea ai te hanga wawe i ngā kano ārai mate, ā, me te rahi ake hoki, otirā kāore i taea i mua Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka arotake ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Ka tuku whakaaetanga anake a Medsafe mō te whakamahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, kia tau rā anō ō rātou whakaaro mō te ekenga ki ngā paerewa kaha mō te haumaru, te kaha ārai whakapokenga me te kounga. He tukanga ōrite tēnei i whakamahia ki te aromatawai i ētahi atu rongoā, pērā i te kano ārai mate rewharewha. Kāore he pokatata i whāia i te tukunga o tēnei whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate Pfizer. E aroturukuhia tonutia ana mō te haumarutanga Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te tikanga o tēnā, kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Puta noa i ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i rangahautia te kano ārai mate Pfizer i runga i te 44,000 kaiwhakauru. Ko te huarua o te hunga nei i whiwhi i te kano ārai mate, ko tētahi atu haurua i whiwhi placebo mātaitai. Nō ngā mātāwaka whānui, ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira me ngā tūmomo mate whānui anō hoki ngā kaiwhakauru. E toru ngā wāhanga whakamātautau i kuhu atu ai te kano ārai mate Pfizer: E māramai ai ki te kaha ārai mau roa me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate, e haurapatia ana ngā kaiwhakauru o ēnei whakamātautau haumanu mō te 2 tau atu anō i muri mai i tō rātou werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. I konei ka kitea e koe ngā kōrero nui mō te mahi o kano ārai mate. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer he kano ārai mate mRNA Kei roto ko te waehere ā-ira mō tētahi wāhanga nui o te huaketo SARS-CoV-2 (KOWHEORI-19) e kīia nei ko te 'pūmua koikoi'. Ko nga pūmua koikoi ngā tara iti i runga i te mata o te wheori. Kia whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate, ka pānuitia e tō tinana te waehere ā-ira, ā, ka tango kape o te pūmua koikoi. Ka kitea e tō pūnaha awhikiri ēnei pūmua koikoi, ā, ka ako ki te āhukahuka, me te whawhai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mōhio ia me pēhea te whakaeke i te huaketo hei ārai i te horapatanga ki tō tinana. Kātahi ka wāwāhitia te waehere ā-ira mai i te kano ārai mate, ka tere, ka māmā hoki te tangohia e tō tinana. Kāore ngā kano ārai mate mRNA e puri i te huaketo e tuku ana i te KOWHEORI-19, tētahi atu huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei. Kāore he painga, he tauwhitiwhiti ranei ki ō DNA, ki ō ira ranei. e kore e uru ngā kano ārai mate mRNA ki te puku o te pūtau, kei reira e mau ana ō tātau DNA. I whanaketia ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mā roto i ngā mahi ngātahitanga ā-ao nui. Kua rangahau, kua mahi hoki ngā kairangahau i ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mō ngā tau maha. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā rangahau o ngā kano ārai mate rewharewha, Zika, rabies me te cytomegalovirus (CMV). Kua rangahaua hoki e ngā kaipūtaiao ngā pokenga mate korona i mua pēnei i te SARS me te MERS. Nō te tautuhitanga o ngā kaipūtaiao i te mate korona e puta ai te KOWHEORI-19, i tere tā rātou urutau i ngā hangarau mō te KOWHEORI-19. Ahakoa he hangarau āhua hou tēnei, i whāia tonutia ngā tikanga arowhai haumaru me ngā waehere. Kei roto hoki ko ngā whakamātautau haumanu ā-ao hei āwhina ki te whakaatu i te kaha ārai pokenga me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate.E whakamahia ana te kano ārai mate Pfizer puta noa i te ao, ā, e haere tonu ana, ngā mahi aroturuki tata mō tōna whaihuatanga me te haumarutanga. Last updated: 20 August 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i te 1-2 rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te werohanga tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka pā kinotia taupuatia pea tō āhei ki te hautū waka, te whakahaere pūrere rānei i ngā pānga kino. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Ngā pānga kino tauhou, onge hoki - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e manawarau ana tō noho, ka taea e koe te: Mēnā he āwangawanga āu, e māuiui ana rānei i muri mai i tō werohanga, kōrero ki tō tākuta ā-whānau, tētahi atu mātanga hauora rānei, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā e māharahara ana koe mō tō oranga, waea ki 111. Whakamōhio atu kua whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai tika i a koe. He wā anō ka pā ngā pāwera kino engari he tino onge. Mēnā i pā tētahi tauhohenga pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki a koe i tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrero ki tō kaituku kano i tō taenga atu ki tō toronga tuku kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā tētahi tauhohenga i te wā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ka tau atu tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te tiaki i a koe. Ko te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) he pātengi raraunga o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Ka aroturuki a CARM i tēnei mōhiohio ki te tautuhi i ngā take hei āwhina i te whakamahinga haumaru me te tūtohu rongoā. Ina hiahia koe, ka taea e koe te whāki i ō pānga kino. Mā te whāki i ō pānga taha ka whai wāhi koe ki ngā raraunga e kohia ana i te ao, ā, me te āwhina ki te tautuhi i ngā tauira i Aotearoa me ngā tūpono take haumaru. Whākina ō pānga kino ki te CARM (external link) Ngā pānga kino i whākina i Aotearoa (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene. Ko wai e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer anake te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia i Aotearoa. Kua riro i a mātou te 10 miriona werohanga - ka nui tēnei mō te 5 miriona tāngata, kia whiwhi i ngā werohanga e 2 e tika ana kia āraitia. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer: Me whiwhi koe i tō werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate i te 42 rā, neke atu rānei (6 wiki) i muri mai i te werohanga tuatahi. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i muri i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapu kōrero mō ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate Ka aromatawaitia ngā tono o ngā rongoā hou katoa e te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa e Medsafe. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā kano ārai mate. Kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o tētahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, me whakapono ia ka: He tino whaihua te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā ka whiwhi te tangata i ngā werohanga e rua. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i pehea te whanaketanga me te whakaaetanga o te kano ārai mate Kia whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, kāore koe i te tiaki noa iho i a koe. E whai wāhi ana koe ki te whakaititanga o te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. He wawe rawa i tēnei wā ki te whai mōhio mēnā ka taea e koe te tuku i te huaketo i muri mai o te werohanga ārai mate. Hei āwhina ki te ārai i a koutou ko tō whānau me ētahi atu, me āwhina tonu koe ki te ārai i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19 i muri mai i te werohanga kano ārai mate. Ki mahara ki te: He nui ngā mōhiohio tuihono, pae pāpori hoki mō te kano ārai mate. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono mō ngā kano ārai mate E rapu ana mātou i ētahi atu kaituku kano ārai mate hei tautoko i te whakaputanga o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā he mātanga hauora kua tāoki, kāore rānei i te mahi i tēnei wā i te ahumahi hauora, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki te tū hei kaitūao, haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora ki te rēhita i tō hiahia. Rēhitatia tō hiahia ki te tū hei kaituku kano ārai mate (external link) Last updated: 25 August 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: Rapua ngā meka [PDF, 270 KB] COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Rapua he kōrero me aha koe ina haere atu ana i Aotearoa, hoki mai ana rānei Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ka noho tonu ko te kauparenga nui mō tātou ko te ārai atu i te huaketo mai i Aotearoa. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi te nuinga o ngā kaihāereere ki Aotearoa i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua i te wehe e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana, i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga tuatahi ki tāwāhi. Ka wātea ngā whenua e whai ake nei i tētahi whakamātau i mua i te wehenga: Kua whakaūngia e te Manatu Hauora ngā momo whakamātautau e whai ake nei e whakaaetia ana mō ngā whenua katoa hāunga ngā whenua o Ahitereiria me ngā whenua tino mōrearea: E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi ngā kaihāereere mai i Ahitereiria i ngā whakamātautau PCR, RT-PCR rānei i mua i te wehenga. Me whai taunakitanga rawa ngā kaihāereere mai i ngā whenua tino mōrearea o tētahi whakamātautau ihu-korokoro RT-PCR (PCR) e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana. Kimihia ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whenua tino mōrearea Ka wātea ngā tamariki i raro iho i te rua tau (24 marama) i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ka wātea ngā kaihāereere e whakawhiti ana mā Aotearoa ki tō rātou taunga whakamutunga, me te noho i te taha rerenga, i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ko ngā kaihāereere kāore e āhei atu te whai whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, me toro atu ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga. Me tuku rātou i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā ki a koe e kī ana e kore koe e āhei ki te whai tētahi whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, ā, kāore i a koe ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he whakamātautau tāu i mua i te wehenga e kī ana kua whai tohumate koe, engari e whakapono ana koe nā tētahi whakapokenga o mua o te KOWHEORI-19, me toro atu koe ki tētahi tākuta māna koe e tirotiro mō ngā tohumate hou o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tino mōhio ana ia kāore i a koe tētahi pokenga KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā tonu, māna e tuku ki a koe: E whakaaetia ana ngā tiwhikete rongoā i roto i ngā reo kē. E tino tohutohua ana te hunga haere ki te pātai ki tō(ō) rātau kamupene rererangi mō ētahi atu whakaritenga whakamātau i mua i te wehenga. E tohutohua ana hoki rātau kia tirotirohia nga whakaritenga o ētahi atu whenua ka whakawhitia e rātau. Mō ngā whakahounga hou rawa o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā toro atu ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi tēnā toro atu ki: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) Last updated: 7 July 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Get the latest updates Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available Last updated 12 December 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 20,681 Third dose administered 154,224 Booster dose administered 3,948,761 First dose administered 3,747,367 Second dose administered 94% Eligible population with 1 dose 89% Eligible population with 2 doses Find out how many second doses your DHB needs to get to 90% fully vaccinated. Vaccinations to 90% by DHB Check our vaccinations map to find out how many people in your DHB or small area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand  Last updated 13 December 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. This includes: 61 Cases in hospital 101 New community cases 9,814 Total community cases in current outbreak 2 New cases at the border Last updated 13 December 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on how much people are using the NZ COVID Tracer app. More data is available in your app dashboard. 3,481,510 Registered users 2,881,754 Poster scans in the last 24 hours Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | stats.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports | health.govt.nz (external link) If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you’re a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 11 December 2021 at 1:27 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated. This map shows the vaccination rates for district health boards (DHBs) and small areas of New Zealand. Enter your address to see the proportion of people who have received their first or second dose in your area, compared with the national average. Dose Ethnicity Map areas Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Map key  Map key Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Data in this table is as at 11:59pm 9 December 2021. Note that the New Zealand doses to 90% may not be a sum of the rows above. This is because any DHBs that exceed 90% will contribute additional doses to the national total, offsetting the doses required in other DHBs. Partially/fully vaccinated % are the number of partially/fully vaccinated people divided by the eligible population. Partially/fully vaccinated to 90% are the number of people required to reach 90% of the eligible population. Percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number, so may show 90% with a small number of doses still remaining. Source: Ministry of Health COVID-19: vaccine data | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 2:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1-10 of 739 updates 13 Dec 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 13 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Dec 2021 Watch background briefing with Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield about therapeutic treatments for COVID-19. 10 Dec 2021 The Transition Payment that is available for affected businesses to support their move to the COVID-19 Protection Framework has opened for applications. 09 Dec 2021 Rapid antigen testing will be available for free from community pharmacies for travellers until 31 January 2022. 09 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Today, an additional 31,780 tests were processed, taking the total since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020 to 5,005,959. This really is an incredible and sustained team effort. Thousands of people make up our skilled workforce carrying out the testing. It is because of the hard work and dedication of each of them, we have seen so many tests carried out, processed and followed up. Thank you also to the millions of New Zealanders who have been tested, sometimes more than once. Each one of those tests has contributed to our knowledge about the virus and its prevalence in New Zealand. To everyone who has been part of the process, thank you for your contribution. You have made a difference. Our COVID-19 testing system is led by passionate staff, working in top-class laboratories producing accurate test results to international standards. New Zealand has been very well served by our testing system. It underpinned our elimination strategy by relying on an accurate and highly sensitive test – namely the nasopharyngeal swab analysed by PCR to measure the presence of viral RNA. New Zealand’s test positivity rate, a key measure of the effectiveness of the testing system, has consistently been among the lowest in the world, which gives us confidence we are missing few cases in the community. This past week for example, New Zealand's positive rate has ranged from 0.41 and 1.03 percent. PCR testing remains crucial as we introduce the COVID Protection Framework. From this week, Rapid Antigen Tests has been made available to all businesses and health care settings in New Zealand to compliment PCR testing. These tests can provide a result in 15 minutes but require a high viral load, so are more effective in the early stages of an individual’s infectious period. For asymptomatic surveillance testing two or three times a week is recommended. The health advice is to continue to get a PCR test if you have COVID-19 symptoms. PCR tests are still more sensitive than Rapid Antigen Tests. There are good supplies of these tests already in New Zealand, with another 3.8 million Rapid Antigen Tests in stock by the end of this week. Testing will continue to be a cornerstone of our collective response to COVID-19. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 12:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. As we enter a new phase in our response to COVID-19 which will see more people isolating at home, we are changing our strategy to ensure everyone gets the support they need in order to isolate and recover safely. Supporting the welfare needs of individuals and whānau is central to how we will manage COVID-19 in the community from now on. Each region in New Zealand has different community supports and groups available to them, therefore the Government is providing $204.1 million for region-specific, locally led responses. Whether you are in Westport or West Auckland we want to ensure welfare support such as food, financial assistance, and connection to the right services is available for you and your whānau. For those who need to isolate, we’re making the process as simple as possible. When you have a COVID test you will be provided with information on how to proactively access welfare support if you need it. If you receive a positive test, you will be contacted by someone who will assess your needs. If you need welfare support, then MSD will act as the coordination point for local partners, providers and community groups to deliver the support you require. MSD’s regions will work with partners, including iwi/Māori and local providers to deliver this support and provide funding where it is needed. They will also work with Health, HUD, Kāinga Ora and MBIE to find suitable alternative accommodation if someone who has tested positive and can’t isolate at home. A dedicated 0800 COVID-19 welfare support helpline will also be available to support those in isolation throughout their recovery. During the response to Delta, the Government provided $38.15 million in funding for food support and community connection services to help whānau access the immediate support they need. We have seen some excellent work being carried out by our community providers, particularly by Māori and Pacific focused organisations in Auckland. As we move to the traffic light system and ease restrictions across New Zealand, we know that we will need to take a locally led approach specific to each region and community. This funding will support this approach by empowering our local partners and organisations to deliver welfare support. Our high rates of vaccination mean New Zealanders are in a strong position as we move to ease restrictions and open back up. But we also know there are many for whom getting COVID-19 will not only be dangerous for their health but also challenging for their situation. This package is about making life as easy as possible as people recover. We will continue to monitor the needs of the community and respond if more support is required. Last updated: 25 November 2021 at 11:35 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. While the priority is still getting people fully vaccinated, healthcare, border workers and kaumātua who have been fully vaccinated for six months or more can now get their boosters. Vaccination is the best protection against COVID-19. Booster doses will be available free for anyone in New Zealand aged 18 or older who has completed their two-dose course more than six months ago. We’re particularly keen to make sure our healthcare and border workers – who are most at risk of coming in contact with COVID-19, and older people including kaumātua and those in residential care are aware that boosters are available from Monday, and that they’re eligible if they completed their course of Pfizer more than six months ago. Work is already happening around the motu to ensure boosters are available in the same way your normal two shots are available – at vaccination sites, GPs and pharmacies, and on-site in aged residential care facilities (ARCs). DHBs are working hard to reach those who were in the early priority groups of the vaccine rollout, particularly border and healthcare workers, older Māori and Pacific people, and those in ARCs. NRHCC, which runs the vaccine rollout on behalf of Auckland DHBs, starts its outreach activity at aged residential care facilities this week at Kenderdine Park Rest Home in Papatoetoe – the first rest home the DHBs started vaccinating at, when it kicked off its vaccination outreach to ARCs back in April 2021. Bay of Plenty DHB will begin its booster programme among ARC residents, planning to administer around 2,000 doses by Christmas. Down south, Southern DHB is working with local Māori and Pasifika providers to ensure over 65s in their communities get the opportunity to receive a booster dose. People will be able to access boosters in New Zealand, whether they received their earlier doses here or overseas. The Pfizer vaccine will be used for boosters, regardless of which vaccine was used for earlier doses. There’s no need to rush to get the booster. The science shows fully vaccinated people remain really well protected from infection, and from being seriously ill if they do get COVID-19. There is plenty of existing stock of the Pfizer vaccine in New Zealand and this will not run out. And while the booster programme is an important next step in our pandemic response, increasing the vaccination coverage of first and second doses, particularly for Māori, Pacific and disabled communities, remains our number one priority in our nationwide vaccination rollout, particularly with COVID in the community and as new strains emerge. Please encourage your whānau and friends to get vaccinated. Last updated: 28 November 2021 at 1:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 11:15am. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Aotearoa New Zealand will soon move into the traffic light system, which needs a new approach to how we manage COVID-19 in our communities. Care in the community Last updated: 25 November 2021 at 11:27 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Ministry of Health has updated the position on the use of saliva for diagnostic testing for COVID-19. This means saliva testing for surveillance purposes for some groups of workers can be reduced from twice weekly to once a week, and there is no need for a follow-up nasopharyngeal swab to confirm a positive saliva test result. Effective immediately, permitted workers crossing the Alert Level boundary who have chosen saliva testing to meet their testing requirements will only need 1 saliva test within a 7-day period, not 2 saliva tests. From 15 December 2021, permitted workers will need proof of being fully vaccinated or proof of a test taken no more than 7 days before crossing the boundary. The Ministry’s testing strategy is always led by public health and science advice. We are confident it will continue to keep border workers, their whānau and our communities safe. Workers in the education sector, and maritime and aviation border workers can change from twice weekly saliva testing to once a week when changes are made to the Required Testing Order which the Ministry expects to complete by the end of November. Until this time, the current testing regime remains unchanged for these groups. There is no change to daily testing for staff at quarantine facilities and twice weekly testing for staff at managed isolation facilities. When the Order is changed, occasional workers in managed isolation and quarantine facilities can also move to once a week for saliva. There is no change to the current requirements for people crossing the boundary for reasons of permitted personal travel. In most cases, this means having evidence of a negative test administered 72 hours before travel. From 15 December 2021, for people crossing the Alert Level boundary for personal reasons: proof of being fully vaccinated or a negative COVID-19 test result taken 72 hours before travel must be provided if stopped by police. Last updated: 23 November 2021 at 3:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Hawke’s Bay DHB confirmed the case late last night and informed the person of their test result. This person tested positive for COVID-19 as part of routine surveillance swabbing for COVID-19 when they visited Hawke’s Bay Hospital’s Emergency Department after feeling unwell. No Emergency Department staff have been stood down as a result, as all were wearing the appropriate protective PPE. The case investigation began last night and the person is safely isolating, with monitoring from the local public health unit. The public health team has identified close household contacts who are all now isolating. Further interviews with the positive case and testing for all close and wider contacts will continue today. The DHB reports that the latest case and whānau are being very helpful in supporting the case investigation and following public health advice. Investigations will continue today to determine any links to other cases and to identify any locations of interest. At this stage, an early assessment has found a number of exposure events, such as the DHB Emergency Department, where anyone potentially affected is able to be contacted directly. The Ministry’s locations of interest webpage will be updated with locations when identified and confirmed as a result of today’s reported case. Locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry is confirming this case prior to the usual 1pm statement to encourage testing today – anyone with symptoms, no matter how mild, should be tested. For all updated testing centres and times please visit the DHB’s website. Hawke's Bay testing centres | ourhealthhb.nz (external link) Last updated: 28 November 2021 at 1:20 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There were 41,077 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of: To date, 93% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 86% are fully vaccinated. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 1 December 2021 at 3:48 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 11 August media conference Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Watch the COVID-19 media conference held by government officials and ministers at 4pm. Speakers: Transcript of the 4pm media conference The COVID-19 media conference was held at 10:30am. Speakers: Transcript of the 10:30am media conference Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference with ministers was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 13 August media conference Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 3:43 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the Prime Minister's 5:30pm media conference [PDF, 275 KB] (external link) The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 14 August 1pm media conference [PDF, 194 KB] (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 15 August media conference [PDF, 178 KB] (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 16 August media conference [PDF, 187 KB] (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 1pm. Speaker: Watch the media conference. Transcript of the 17 August media conference [PDF, 160 KB] (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There were 9,851 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 23 November 2021 at 9:50 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There were 18,880 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of: To date, 92% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 84% are fully vaccinated. As of 9am today, more than 1,664,000 million requests for a My Vaccine Pass had been processed. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 25 November 2021 at 8:56 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Last updated: 30 November 2021 at 10:39 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Waitematā and Canterbury have now become the third and fourth DHB areas to reach 90% fully vaccinated, after Auckland and Capital and Coast. There were 39,553 total vaccine doses administered yesterday, including 8,600 first doses and 16,641 second doses. To date, 93% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 87% are fully vaccinated. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 3:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 3:53 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers:  Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield will lead a background briefing for media organisations to provide more detail on therapeutic treatments for COVID-19, including their role, supply, and logistics — and our latest progress in securing these medicines. Dr Bloomfield will be joined by Dr Ian Town, Chief Science Advisor at the Ministry of Health, and Sarah Fitt, Chief Executive of Pharmac.  Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 12:11 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. "Because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public, with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. I require the following people to do 2 things. This direction applies to the following people: If you need advice accessing financial assistance while you have been directed to isolate at home you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009." Given at Wellington at 1pm Wednesday 12 August 2020 Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director-General of Health Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Vaccine requirements in the workplace are a common tool many countries around the world are using to stop the spread of COVID and to protect their workers and customers from the virus. Workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate need to have their first dose by 3 December 2021 and be fully vaccinated by 17 January 2022. This requirement to be vaccinated applies to hospitality, events, gatherings, close contact businesses and gyms. Workers will need to be vaccinated to continue working in these areas. For anyone who is not yet vaccinated, especially workers in areas where My Vaccine Passes can be applied, there are 10 days left to get your first dose. It is free, safe and the most effective way to keep you, your whānau, business and customers safe. It’s a simple contribution to keeping all New Zealanders safe from COVID-19. We’ve developed a simplified tool to help clarify what work should be covered by vaccinated workers. It will help you assess when it is reasonable to require vaccination for other work. This tool will be available from mid-December 2021. This tool provides a clear, legal framework to help businesses make decisions about vaccinations in the workplace. It builds on the guidance provided by WorkSafe and has had input from BusinessNZ and the CTU. The tool will specify 4 key factors, at least 3 of which must be met, before it would be reasonable to require vaccination for particular work. This new process won’t override risk assessments that businesses have already done under the existing health and safety guidelines. Businesses can choose which one they use, and any assessments done to date remain valid. We understand that businesses and workers need certainty. Legislation allowing the vaccination assessment tool to be created, as well as introducing four weeks’ paid notice of termination and paid time off to get vaccinated, will be passed under urgency this week. This legislation will come into effect the day after it is passed. The assessment tool will then be available for businesses to use once regulations are made in mid-December under the amended law. It’s common sense to ensure staff in workplaces that are either required to or can use the My Vaccine Pass are vaccinated. This is regardless of whether the business chooses to require My Vaccine Passes from customers or attendees. It gives confidence to the customers who are vaccinated and means the business will be less likely to be affected by cases. We have tested this requirement with stakeholders, and it has received broad support, including from religious communities. Everyone wants to keep their staff, customers and congregations safe. Last updated: 23 November 2021 at 12:38 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Ministry of Health will today email a temporary exemption from the requirement to produce a My Vaccine Pass to a small group of people waiting for the individual assistance needed to get their pass. The temporary exemption is a record of the individual’s request for assistance and has a unique identifier. It can be shown to businesses and organisations that require a My Vaccine Pass. It is valid until 11:59pm on 14 December 2021. More than 95% of people who requested a My Vaccine Pass have received their pass and are ready for New Zealand to move to the traffic light system on Friday. However there are currently around 70,000 requests for assistance, including people who need to add international vaccinations to their New Zealand record, people who need their name changed, and people whose records have other errors that need to be corrected. While this represents a small percentage of the 3 million My Vaccine Passes that have been issued to date, it is important these individuals are not unfairly disadvantaged when New Zealand moves to the Covid Protection Framework tonight. The temporary exemption is a pragmatic measure in response to the unprecedented demand our call centres are facing. We have scaled up our processing team significantly, but it is likely that not every request will be able to be resolved by tomorrow. If you are waiting to hear back from our call centre or service desk, keep an eye on your email including your junk folder. If your My Vaccine Pass is not available today, you will get an exemption email tonight. Over the next few days we will also be phoning people who have outstanding requests with us but who have not provided an email address. The fastest and easiest way to get your My Vaccine Pass is via mycovidrecord.health.nz. People can also obtain assistance in getting their My Vaccine Pass from participating pharmacies, general practices, hauora, and DHB vaccination clinics. We recommend people call ahead or check healthpoint.nz or the individual organisation’s website. Get your My Vaccine Pass We will continue to have surge capacity in our call centres and wider processing team through the weekend and early next week. If you need to contact our call centre, we want to hear from you but please be patient. Our staff are working hard to help people generate their My Vaccine Pass as quickly as possible. My Vaccine Pass, which is an official record of a person’s COVID-19 vaccination status, will help people access places within New Zealand that require proof of vaccination under the new COVID Protection Framework. The CPF will go live at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 6:04 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Associate Minister of Health (Māori) Peeni Henare today confirmed that Māori across the motu have now reached 80% for first doses of the COVID-19 vaccination nationally. “We have seen a huge increase in vaccinations for Māori throughout November, since the beginning of the month the increase for first doses has been 7.9% and second doses 12.4%,” Peeni Henare said. “It is especially heartening to see that Māori continue to protect whānau and communities by lifting Aotearoa’s first dose vaccination rate. This includes 212,324 rangatahi (12 to 34 year olds) who have come forward to receive their vaccinations, which has helped lead us to this important milestone. “As you would expect, kaumatua have led the way vaccinating for their mokopuna, resulting in high vaccination rates. This has seen 91.6% of Māori over 65 fully vaccinated, which compares well with any other group in New Zealand. “These milestones reflect the hard work Māori health providers and our Māori community leaders have put in to reach Māori across the motu to support the vaccination drive, by door-knocking, going to workplaces and places of worship to vaccinate. “However, we still have work to do to reach those who are yet to receive their first dose and we continue to encourage those who have had a first dose to ensure they return for their second dose so they are fully vaccinated. There are currently over 42,000 Māori who are eligible to get their second dose after waiting more than the minimum 21 days between doses. “Aotearoa is only days away from moving into the new COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic light system) and vaccination is an important part of protecting our communities from COVID-19. I encourage everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand who is yet to take up the vaccination wero to visit covid19.govt.nz to find their nearest drive-through, walk-in or booking. “We want all our communities to be protected against COVID-19,” Minister Henare said. Walk-in or drive-through vaccination centres Last updated: 25 November 2021 at 4:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Ministry of Health has issued more than 2 million My Vaccine Passes and, with demand continuing to grow, has released additional options for people to get their My Vaccine Pass. More than 50% of people in New Zealand who are fully vaccinated have now received their My Vaccine Pass. The new online system we built for My Vaccine Pass has worked incredibly well with these volumes. We are expecting a lot more requests in the coming days online however it has been our call centres that have faced unprecedented demand with higher volumes experienced than vaccine bookings. With nearly 70,000 calls received yesterday alone to the 0800 number, we have added to our call centre capacity to support customers wanting to set up their My COVID Record, check their NHI number, or generate their My Vaccine Pass. The fastest option to get a My Vaccine Pass is online . For those people who need extra assistance, 3 call centres are now operating with extended hours. They can email or post out My Vaccine Passes. They can also handle customers' various requirements. The option via post is also now available. In addition to postal and online generation of the passes, we are rolling out an option for people that prefer to deal with someone face-to-face . Over the next couple of days customers will be able to go to a pharmacy and request their My Vaccine Pass. Nearly 400 pharmacies around the country currently providing COVID-19 vaccinations will now also be able to assist people with getting a vaccine pass. The priority of pharmacies is to dispense medicines but they are ready to assist people who do not have internet access or would prefer this option. Locations of participating pharmacies are listed on the Healthpoint website (external link) Customers are asked to continue to be patient as staff at call centres and pharmacies do their best to assist with queries and help people generate their My Vaccine Pass. There is time for people to get their pass and if you can’t get through immediately on 0800 222 478 please call back later, or use the My Covid Record website if you are able to. My Covid Record (external link) My Vaccine Pass, which is an official record of a person’s COVID-19 vaccination status, will help people access places within New Zealand that require proof of vaccination under the new traffic light system. The system will go live at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. Last updated: 28 November 2021 at 1:11 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: Health responses include: “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Sentiment and Behaviour surveys were carried out over ten days in July and September, following earlier benchmark surveys in March and May, with the recent research providing insights into sentiment towards lockdowns, the vaccine rollout, and how people have been feeling in relation to the behaviours expected of them during higher Alert Levels. A series of smaller ‘pulse checks’ were also undertaken throughout August to understand Alert Level 4 sentiment and behaviours. This research was carried out before Government announcements on the next chapter for New Zealand’s response to COVID-19, with the transition from the Alert Level system into the COVID-19 Protection Framework. While the September research showed respondents were supportive of the response to COVID-19, and believed Alert Level settings were the best approach at that time, a feeling of fatigue around the situation was setting in, and 27% of people reported they felt sad, up +12 since July. ‘Not knowing when we will return to normal’ was a top 5 concern in September, with 47% of people citing it as a top-of-mind impact of COVID-19, up +14 since July. Concerns also rose in September around the long-term impacts of COVID-19 compared to July, including access to education (+17), mental health impacts (+13), and the welfare of lower socio-economic areas (up +12). “Since the pandemic began, a constant challenge has been the unknowns – what will the virus do to us, what will it mean for our whānau, our communities, and our businesses, what will it mean for our future plans,” says COVID-19 Group Deputy Chief Executive Cheryl Barnes. “The September research reflects a difficult time for many of us, with Alert Level 4 restrictions in place in Auckland, the rest of New Zealand at Alert Level 2 after three weeks at higher Alert Levels, and with much uncertainty and concern around the Delta outbreak and the next steps.” People were however feeling increasingly positive about the vaccine rollout as it ramped up, with 82% saying they think the rollout is going really well or okay, and the number of those in the ‘Unlikely’, ‘Unengaged’ and ‘Rejector’ groups falling to 12% in September, compared to 20% in July. The research also showed a rise in people expecting to continue to need to carry out important COVID-19 health behaviours even after they are fully vaccinated. “Vaccination is one of the most important tools we have to protect ourselves and our whānau from the virus, but we know using the whole toolbox is fundamental to reducing the impact of COVID-19 on our lives,” says Cheryl Barnes. “This research shows more people understanding that vaccines combined with other measures – like face coverings, record keeping and monitoring symptoms – give us the best protection.” Overall in September around 70% of people reporting feeling the country is heading in the right direction with the COVID-19 response, a drop from 75% in May when the country was at Alert Level 1, but a figure that stayed relatively stable throughout the survey period. The Reconnecting New Zealanders strategy released in August has also provided a level of reassurance for people about the future. Of those who are aware of the ‘Four-Phase plan, 33% are also concerned with ‘not knowing when we will return to normal’, compared to 47% of people generally. “As the response to COVID-19 evolves and important decisions are made, insights from research like this will continue to inform engagement and communications activity,” says Cheryl Barnes. This includes the opportunity to look at how different parts of the community respond to different messaging, so that we can make sure everybody has access to clear and accurate information, on platforms and channels that suit them. The research involved interviews with a nationally representative sample of New Zealanders aged 16 years and over via an online survey, with 827 people surveyed in July and 846 people surveyed in September. View sentiment and behaviour research reports Last updated: 26 November 2021 at 12:52 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The service, run by Whakarongorau Aotearoa on behalf of the Ministry of Health, is in response to feedback from the disability community and is an addition to the COVID Vaccination Healthline, which already offers dedicated phone and email support for disabled people and people living with impairments to get their COVID-19 vaccination. We’re making it easier for the deaf, hard of hearing community and others who may be speech impaired to get vaccinated. They can now text 8988 for access to vaccine information, help to book a vaccination appointment, or support with transport. It’s heartening to see good uptake of the phone and email service which has already received over 3,400 phone calls since September. It has not only been a safe haven for disabled people to discuss the vaccination, anxiety or needle phobias, but they’ve been supported to access sites with low sensory settings for example as well as home vaccinations. The Whakarongorau service is staffed with a dedicated team of advisors who are either living with a disability themselves, have close whānau with a disability or, have extensive experience working with the disabled community. Their lived experience makes the service unique and underlines the ethos of The Manaakitanga Journey to enhancing the vaccination experiences for disabled people. One in four New Zealanders identify as disabled or having an impairment. As of 21 November, of the 37,269 people supported by Disability Support Services and long term ACC clients nationwide, 86% have had their first dose, and 79% have been fully vaccinated. As we take steps towards more freedoms as a fully vaccinated Aotearoa New Zealand, we’re committed to ensuring that our vaccination programme continues to be as accessible and inclusive as possible to all New Zealanders. We’re in a new phase in our fight against COVID, and an even greater fight to protect the hauora of disabled people and their whānau. Last updated: 25 November 2021 at 8:51 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Auckland moved to Alert Level 3 at 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August. Restrictions for Auckland at Alert Level 3 The rest of New Zealand will move to Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. This afternoon, a public health risk assessment was carried out to assess the emerging evidence and any risk to New Zealand from the new variant. This included discussions with counterparts in Australia. It was important that the Ministry of Health rapidly and thoroughly assess all the latest information from overseas, as it always does when there is a new COVID-19 variant or research. The Government is taking a precautionary approach in treating South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, Seychelles, Malawi and Mozambique as very high risk countries to reduce the chance of Omicron entering New Zealand. This means that from 11:59pm Sunday 28 November only New Zealand citizens from these countries will be able to come here. They will be required to stay in managed isolation for a full 14 day period and undergo testing. The extended MIQ requirement will also apply to those already in transit from these countries. The newer model of 7 days in managed isolation and 3 days at home for other returnees will continue – there is still good evidence this model is safe and provides a high level of protection against the virus entering out communities. This and the fact that the numbers of travellers New Zealand gets from each of these countries is low. Our understanding of the Omicron variant is still very much in its infancy and we’re confident this variant hasn’t entered New Zealand – several hundred border cases have been identified in managed isolation in recent months and whole genome sequencing, which is undertaken routinely on all border-related cases, has shown that all have been the Delta variant. New Zealand remains in a very good position to prevent this variant entering the country and deal with it if it does appear at our border. Our MIQ facilities and frequent testing of arrivals continue to serve us well. Given the evolving situation, a cautious approach is warranted. Adding these countries to the very high risk country register is an appropriate and proportionate measure as more evidence is gathered globally on the Omicron variant. Last updated: 28 November 2021 at 9:27 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. New Zealand has secured supplies of another medicine to treat COVID-19. In October, New Zealand was one of the first countries in the world to make an advance purchase of a promising new antiviral drug, molnupiravir. The national drug-funding agency Pharmac has secured from Pfizer 60,000 courses of another antiviral medicine which, like molnupiravir, can be taken as a tablet and used to stop people with mild symptoms becoming very sick. Vaccinations and following the scan-mask-pass routine are still the best ways of stopping the spread of COVID-19, but it is important we also have a range of medicines to treat those who do get sick. Alongside vaccinations, our hospital treatments are already reducing the likelihood of people needing ICU care, with the ICU rate in Auckland dropping to 3% of hospitalisations, down from 5.7% previously. Molnupiravir works by introducing copying errors during replication, which means you are less likely to get a fully functioning virus. Pfizer’s antiviral drug, which does not yet have a brand name in New Zealand, also inhibits replication but in a different way, by preventing the cleavage of certain proteins necessary to create a fully functioning virus. The government has made sure Pharmac can continue to secure early access to new and promising COVID medicines as soon as possible, with $175 million allocated for medicines and supply chain costs and another $300 million available for purchasing more COVID-19 therapeutics. Both drugs are still subject to approval by Medsafe, but trials look promising and by securing access to both we are doing everything possible to make sure New Zealanders have available medicines that are easy to administer and prevent most people who contract COVID-19 from being so sick they need to go to hospital. The Pfizer anti-viral is expected to be delivered to New Zealand in April, once approved by MedSafe. Other COVID-19 medicines secured by Pharmac are baricitinib, remdesivir, tocilizumab, and Ronapreve. Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 5:22 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The latest surge in New Zealanders downloading the NZ COVID Tracer app has taken it over the 1 million mark of registered users. Keep track of where you've been The NZ COVID Tracer app gives us a strong head start in responding. It is not enough to rely on your memory or personal records. All businesses will need to display a QR code for the NZ COVID Trader app by 11:59am on 19 August. It is easy for businesses to download a QR code for their business using a fast new process. Get your QR code  Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery.  We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.  Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB] Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Fully vaccinated New Zealanders will find it easier to come home from January 2022, with foreign nationals to follow from April onwards, as the Government removes the requirement for managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) for most travellers. Closing our border was one of the first steps we took to keep our country safe from COVID-19 and it’ll be the last thing we open up, following our transition into the traffic light system system and lifting of the Auckland boundary. For details around when travellers can enter New Zealand without going into MIQ: Eligible travellers include people who can enter New Zealand under current restricted immigration settings, for example: Further detailed information is available on the Immigration NZ website. Border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) We have a clear, simple and safe plan, including a mandatory period of self-isolation. The border will open in 3 steps, and all travellers who do not have to go into MIQ will still require: We are making this announcement today to give families, businesses, visitors and airline and airport companies certainty and time to prepare. It’s very encouraging that as a country we are now in a position to move towards greater normality. We always said we’d open in a controlled way, and this started with halving the time spent in MIQ to 7 days. Retaining a 7-day isolate at home period for fully vaccinated travellers is an important phase in the reconnecting strategy to provide continued safety assurance. These settings will continue to be reviewed against the risk posed by travellers entering New Zealand. Further details on how self-isolation will be implemented will be made available in December 2021, and include guidance on how people can travel from their arrival airport to their location of self-isolation and requirements for the places where they can self-isolate. Some people and businesses want us to start to open up before Christmas, and that’s understandable, but others want us to be more cautious. We acknowledge it’s been tough but the end of heavily restricted travel is now in sight. There continues to be a global pandemic with cases surging in Europe and other parts of the world, so we do need to be very careful when reopening the border. In the end, we’ve done what we’ve always done, and that is to follow expert advice — which continues to show us the border is our biggest risk for new cases. For example, our current outbreak which now has over 7,000 cases associated with it, stems from a single traveller traveling from Australia to New Zealand. A phased approach to reconnecting with the world is the safest approach to ensure risk is carefully managed. This reduces any potential impacts on vulnerable communities and the New Zealand health system. Our dates for opening of borders logically follows the bedding in of the traffic light system, the lifting of the Auckland border, time for regions to get their vaccination rates higher still and for booster shots to be rolled out. This does not mean the end of MIQ as a system, which was always intended to be temporary at this scale and has served us incredibly well – with more than 190,000 people brought home since our borders closed in March 2020. There will continue to be role for it in the foreseeable future. Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 3:50 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. A 2-week COVID-19 Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available nationally for employers, including self-employed people, who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19 and changes to COVID Alert Levels. The new scheme will be available for 2 weeks from 1 September, when the existing Wage Subsidy Extension scheme expires. The criteria will be similar to the existing Wage Subsidy Extension — businesses must have had, or are predicting to have, a revenue drop due to COVID-19 of at least 40%. The revenue drop applies for any consecutive period of at least 14 days between 12 August and 10 September, compared to a similar period last year. Applications for the updated Wage Subsidy Scheme will be open by Friday 21 August. More information about the COVID-19 Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Government is increasing the support for New Zealanders who test positive for COVID-19 through the rollout of the COVID Care in the Community model and a $300 million funding boost to Pharmac to purchase new medicines to treat the virus. Delta is here so we are changing our strategy for how we deal with the virus. Supported recovery at home and greater access to medicines to stop people getting very sick are the cornerstones of the Care in the Community model. As we move to the traffic light system, reduce restrictions, and remove the Auckland boundary, people will be travelling around the country in the months to come and we will see more cases across the country. The vast majority of people who get COVID-19 will have mild to moderate symptoms and will not require hospital care, but we need to make sure those recovering at home have the support and medicine they need to recover safely, and that others in the household are safe as well. The COVID Care in the Community model provides the framework for how the end-to-end community support will be provided as cases increase throughout the country, and sets out the expectations of health and welfare providers. For someone with COVID-19 who can isolate at home, Care in the Community will include the following: At this point, household contacts will need to stay at home for at least 10 days, to make sure they remain free from the virus. The household's dedicated health contact will continue to check in on them during this time. Everyone can also do their bit now to help themselves and their loved ones by using the Readiness Checklist to plan and prepare. Care in the Community Be prepared: Use the Readiness checklist As part of the shift to Care in the Community, the Government is providing $300 million for the national drug-buying agency Pharmac to buy more new medicines to treat COVID-19. Medicines are being rapidly developed and can stop most people getting so sick they need to go to hospital. Vaccinations are still the first and best line of defence against the virus, but we want to make sure people who do contract COVID-19 have access to new treatments as soon as possible. New Zealand is at the front of the queue for these medicines. We were one of the first countries in the world to secure supplies of the new anti-viral drug molnupiravir for treating people with mild-to-medium COVID infections, and Pharmac is talking to other pharmaceutical companies about their medicines. Cabinet has agreed to provide an extra $300 million so the purchase of COVID drugs doesn’t affect Pharmac’s ability to keep buying medications and treatments for other conditions. Last updated: 25 November 2021 at 1:15 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. New Zealand will move into the traffic light system (COVID-19 Protection Framework) from Friday 3 December. The release of the NZ Pass Verifier app is another step for businesses and organisations to prepare for this next phase in our COVID response. The app helps give businesses certainty that they can quickly manage vaccine certificates and make sure they can easily check that their customers are all fully vaccinated. The NZ Verifier app can be downloaded from the Apple and Google Play app stores today. Download NZ Pass Verifer | health.govt.nz (external link) The app is ideal for any organisation that needs to verify customers’ vaccination status. Hospitality venues, close-contact businesses, large gatherings, events, air transport and gyms are just some of the types of businesses that will need to verify customer’s vaccination status if they wish to operate in higher risk levels under the COVID-19 Protection Framework. For customers entering a business requiring proof of vaccination status, their My Vaccine Pass will be scanned by the verifier app. The verifier will show a green tick recognising the official QR code that is embedded into the customer’s pass. It will show quickly that the person is fully vaccinated or has the appropriate exemption and can enter their premises. Importantly, the verifier app does not store a person’s data or see any information other than a person’s name and date of birth. Technical guidance for NZ Pass Verifier is available on the Ministry of Health website and additional guidance for businesses using the verifier under the COVID Protection Framework will be out later this week. People will also be able to call 0800 800 606 for assistance. Further work is being undertaken to accommodate events that expect large volumes of people at a time – such as stadiums, festivals, or large tourism operators. Earlier this month, the Ministry published technical specifications for My Vaccine Pass and its verification. Some companies will integrate the technology into existing digital journeys or pre-verification ticketing processes. Basic needs services such as supermarkets, access to health and disability services and primary and secondary education facilities cannot ask for proof of verification status and will not require a NZ Pass Verifier. As My Vaccine Pass and its verification become part of everyday habits, we’re also asking people to keep using the tools we already have in place to protect us from COVID-19. Mask up, keep your distance and use your COVID Tracer app. Nearly 1.4 million My Vaccine Passes have been generated so far. For those who haven’t taken the step yet, we encourage you to do so. My Vaccine Pass Last updated: 25 November 2021 at 11:04 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. To meet domestic travel requirements from mid-December, 15-minute COVID-19 rapid antigen testing will be available at no cost from community pharmacies throughout New Zealand until the end of January 2022. When the Auckland boundary lifts at 11:59pm on Tuesday 14 December, anyone travelling from Auckland who is not fully vaccinated will need to carry with them evidence of a negative test result within 72 hours of travel. In addition, those who are travelling in other parts of the country with a transport company that requires unvaccinated individuals to be tested will also be required to carry evidence of a negative test result. Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield says: “Aucklanders have borne the brunt of the Delta outbreak, facing restrictions for an extended period to keep the rest of New Zealand safe. But the time has come to allow all New Zealanders to reconnect with one another over summer as safely as possible.” A supervised rapid antigen test at selected community pharmacies can be used for: For rapid antigen tests, the Ministry of Health strongly recommends this is administered as close as possible to the time of travel, preferably within 24 hours before departure. Travellers are still able to use a negative PCR test to meet any travel requirements, but that is not recommended. Using the alternative rapid antigen test will allow our laboratories to focus on processing PCR tests. This will reduce the turnaround time for returning results to symptomatic people and close contacts of confirmed cases as we continue to respond to the current outbreak. Asymptomatic unvaccinated travellers over 12 years old from other parts of New Zealand will need a proof of negative test taken within 72 hours if they travel with a transport company that decides to implement this testing requirement for travel on their service. Unvaccinated workers who are already part of a testing regime for crossing the Auckland boundary can continue with their current regime — other unvaccinated workers can use the negative test within 72 hours. Testing to meet domestic travel requirements will be free of charge for the core summer period and available from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. Rapid antigen testing is not to be used for symptomatic individuals. Advice for people who are unwell and have COVID-19 symptoms continues to be, stay home and get a PCR test. Police will have operational discretion on the enforcement of these rules, with people breaking the rules facing an infringement fine of $1,000. “A significant amount of movement happens across the country during this period, so we have added this safety net to reduce the risk of COVID-19 spreading but we have also been pragmatic," says Dr Bloomfield. “Air New Zealand have made a vaccine certificate or proof of a negative test a requirement before you fly, and these requirements also begin on 15 December. There will be spot checks for travellers out of Auckland airport." These testing requirements are another layer in our protection with COVID-19 in the community. As we enter the next phase, there will be challenges ahead. We will continue to see cases, and in places we have not so far. It is crucial that all of us, right around the country, continue to play our part, so we can enjoy the summer we all deserve. Most importantly, if you are unwell, stay home and don’t go out or travel until you have had a negative PCR test. The Ministry of Health has been engaging with the Pharmacy sector, following Minister Verrall’s announcement on 25 November that rapid antigen tests would be available to the public under supervision by community pharmacies from 15 December. People cannot purchase a rapid antigen test from community pharmacies and complete the test at home. Off-the-shelf rapid antigen tests for purchase and use at home is being considered by Ministry of Health and may be available for the general public in the New Year. The Pharmacy Guild of New Zealand, Green Cross Health and Pharmaceutical Society of NZ represent a significant proportion of the pharmacy sector and the Ministry has been working at pace with them to develop the rollout of rapid antigen testing to the community. As 97.2% of the population live within 20 minutes’ drive from a community pharmacy, use of this network will ensure testing is widely available for all those that need it during this time. Utilising the pharmacy network to provide supervised testing for unvaccinated travellers to meet these testing requirements provides a convenient, reliable and trusted option for the community. Supervised testing means this test will be completed by the person travelling together with a member of the community pharmacy workforce. A rapid antigen test will be used for the purposes of this testing requirement. A negative PCR test is acceptable, but Ministry of Health are asking asymptomatic unvaccinated individuals 12 years and older not to use PCR tests to meet these requirements for travel. This will allow laboratories to focus on processing PCR tests, to reduce the turnaround time for returning results to symptomatic people and close contacts of confirmed cases as we continue to respond to the current outbreak. Evidence of a negative rapid antigen test is required by the following people no more than 72 hours prior to travel, preferably within the 24 hours immediately preceding travel: Unvaccinated workers crossing the Auckland boundary who are already part of a testing regime for crossing the boundary can continue with their current regime — other unvaccinated workers can use the negative test with 72 hours. Free testing is only available for asymptomatic, unvaccinated individuals over 12 years old leaving Auckland, and for domestic travel as required by transport operators across New Zealand, from 15 December to 31 January. For rapid antigen testing, the Ministry of Health strongly recommends that it is administered as close as possible to the time of travel, preferably in the 24 hours prior to departure. PCR tests should be taken within 72 hours before time of departure. Unvaccinated individuals wishing to leave Auckland or travel across the motu must therefore plan their travel carefully to allow sufficient time to get tested and receive their result. The Ministry of Health is working with the pharmacy sector to make supervised rapid antigen testing available to the community at selected pharmacies from 15 December 2021. PCR tests continue to be available at community testing centres and doctors, but the Ministry of Health is strongly recommending unvaccinated travellers to use rapid antigen testing which provides a result in around 15 minutes to meet this testing requirement. The Healthpoint website will provide details of testing locations including community pharmacies offering a rapid antigen testing service. COVID-19 testing | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 2:32 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The three cases, all part of the same New Plymouth household, all have a known link to an existing case in Rotorua. The Ministry is providing an out-of-sequence update to encourage testing and vaccination in Taranaki tomorrow when testing and vaccination centres reopen. The Ministry is encouraging anyone with symptoms, no matter how mild, to get tested. Testing centres coordinated by Taranaki DHB will be open for longer hours starting tomorrow at 8am in New Plymouth. The DHB’s testing centres will also be operating extended hours through the weekend, including operating its South Taranaki testing centre based in Hawera hospital in Hunter St, Hawera. The Ministry of Health continues to encourage anyone who is still to receive either their first or second dose of COVID-19 vaccine to act without delay and get vaccinated promptly. Location and opening hours of vaccination sites across Taranaki (external link) Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 8:32 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. On Friday the traffic lights are turned on for all of New Zealand, as we move forward safely into the next phase of our world-leading COVID-19 response. We have prepared well for this moment by maintaining a cautious approach focused on protecting people and their jobs. Our next phase is focused on minimising the impact of COVID-19 and protecting people. We have vaccinated a significant portion of the team of 5 million, and now is the time to move to a new framework. We have come through the past 2 years of COVID in better shape than nearly anywhere in the world, with the lowest case and death rates in the OECD, a growing economy, and among the highest rates of vaccination in the world. We are now in the strongest position to move forward into the next phase. The certainty and stability of the traffic lights replaces the sudden lockdowns and restrictions of Alert Levels. Our schools will stay open at every colour and businesses will have protection through My Vaccine Passes to keep operating. Other than the existing Auckland boundary, which lifts on 17 January, there will be no new restrictions on travel between regions. Vaccinated New Zealanders using vaccine passes will be able to do many of the things that were previously treated as high risk like safely going to bars and restaurants, getting a haircut, and going to a concert or the gym. In Auckland, it means seeing friends and family indoors again. But there is more to do. There are 160,889 Kiwis due for a second dose — if everyone got it this week we would be at 89.3% fully vaccinated. I encourage those people to get their second dose today to benefit from the full protection of the vaccine, and to be able to get their vaccine pass. Red is the highest setting in the new system, which is why Auckland has moved in at Red as the epicentre of the current outbreak, and we have taken strong account of vaccination rates and vulnerable populations in the other regions at Red. Red provides extra protections against COVID-19 such as requiring both vaccine passes and some capacity limits in the most-high risk settings — that is because if someone has COVID-19, the virus will find it harder to spread among fewer people who are at a distance. As we see what happens to cases and vaccination levels we can look to move regions down to Orange over time, where there are no gathering limits for those who are using vaccine passes. We are not moving any regions to Green immediately while we continue to get vaccination rates up and transition the country to the new framework. To achieve this, $120 million continues to be distributed to support Māori communities to fast-track vaccination efforts and prepare for the traffic light system. But COVID-19 is still with us, and the emergence of the Omicron variant overseas is a reminder of why we need to maintain a careful approach and keep public health measures in place to protect us. We have been cautious with this initial designation of traffic lights as the new framework beds in. Cabinet will review settings and provide an update on Monday 13 December. The next update by Ministers will be on Monday 17 January, and will continue on a fortnightly basis. The factors considered when setting the colours in each region include vaccination, the state of the health system, testing, contact tracing and case management capacity, as well as the rate and effect of COVID-19 transmission. With 85% of New Zealanders now fully vaccinated, 92% with their first dose and boosters being already rolled out, we are ready to move forward in our next stage of the COVID response. Thank you New Zealand. We are getting through our toughest period to date, it has been long but we are well set to move forward with caution into the traffic lights, into summer, into 2022, and beyond. Traffic light settings by region map Life at Red Life at Orange Last updated: 29 November 2021 at 5:00 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. A new national testing strategy will provide better protection for high-risk groups as New Zealand transitions to the traffic light system. Delta is here, so we are ensuring we have the tools in place to support the transition to the new system, and to help minimise the spread of COVID-19. Our testing strategy has worked well to date. New Zealand has amongst the highest number of tests per positive case in the OECD and our border testing has stopped potential incursions. When we were pursuing an elimination strategy we relied on highly sensitive PCR tests because the cost of missing a case was too high. With more and more New Zealanders gaining protection through vaccinations, we can now introduce a wider range of routine testing options that provide other benefits such as accessibility, convenience and speed. With more COVID-19 cases appearing around the country, testing, tracing and quickly isolating cases and their contacts will be all the more important for protecting whānau and communities. We will focus surveillance testing and contact tracing where it’s most needed, to find and minimise COVID-19. Nasopharyngeal PCR tests will continue to be used as the primary diagnostic test, but this will be supplemented by saliva-based PCR testing, rapid antigen testing and rapid PCR tests. From 1 December 2021, businesses will be able to directly source from authorised suppliers approved rapid antigen tests for use within their workforce. These tests will be more widely used across our health system, including aged residential care. Rapid antigen tests will also be available to the general public at pharmacies from 15 December 2021, with tests to be administered under the supervision of pharmacy staff. A PCR test will be required to confirm any positive results. Under the new traffic light system, in regions at Red and Orange there will be a focus on symptomatic testing and surveillance testing in high-risk settings. Regions at Green will see a greater focus on surveillance testing, to quickly find any new clusters of cases. Targeted testing will provide greater capacity for laboratories to process priority testing as part of our efforts to protect vulnerable and high-risk communities. Work is underway to expand capacity to 60,000 PCR tests per day by early next year. We have also stood up a new national telehealth case investigation service, and are training 475 investigators by the end of this month. This will add significant new capacity on top of the excellent work of our Public Health Units. There is a focus on recruiting Māori and Pacific staff, to ensure we can respond to these communities. Under the new strategy there will be more ways to test people with faster results, providing greater certainty and reassurance — and less disruption to our everyday lives. No country has managed to eliminate Delta completely, but we have protections in place to minimise its impact. Last updated: 25 November 2021 at 12:37 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. This payment is a recognition of the long period of time that these businesses especially in Auckland have spent with restrictions in place prior to shifting to the new framework. The payment is designed to support these firms through the next few weeks. This payment is at a higher base rate than the current Resurgence Support Payment and will be $4,000 per business plus $400 per FTE up to a cap of 50 FTEs — a maximum payment of $24,000. Treasury has estimated the likely total cost of the payment to be between $350 and $490 million. The affected revenue period for the Transition Payment will be set between 3 October and 9 November, and must be compared to a typical week in the 6 weeks prior to 17 August. The one-off transition payment will be activated through the Resurgence Support Payment (RSP) system criteria, including a 30% revenue drop. We encourage eligible businesses to apply through Inland Revenue. In addition, the Resurgence Support Payments numbers 4 to 6 remain also remain open for applications until 13 January 2022. This payment helps businesses with their fixed costs. So far the RSP has paid out $2.2 billion to businesses. Coupled with the Wage Subsidy Scheme, the Government has supported businesses and workers with over $6.9 billion since the Delta outbreak began. Support to be off work while isolating or to take leave while waiting for test results, currently provided by the Leave Support Scheme (LSS) and the Short Term Absence Payment, will remain available under all levels of the traffic light system. However, the LSS will move to a weekly payment rather than fortnightly under the new system, reflecting the changed isolation period. We are moving away from the broad based economic supports provided under the Alert Level system. This is because at all levels of the new framework, most businesses will be able to operate at almost full capacity. We will monitor any economic impacts the new system may be having on businesses. Cabinet will review in early 2022 and make recommendations for support as necessary. Businesses can apply for the payment by logging into their MyIR account. Further information can be found on the Inland Revenue website. MyIR (external link) COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment | ird.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 11:42 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There were 17,899 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of 5,679 first doses and 12,222 second doses. To date, 92% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 85% are fully vaccinated. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 28 November 2021 at 1:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Whanganui and Tairāwhiti DHBs are close to reaching 90% partially vaccinated. As of this morning, Tairāwhiti has just 266 more people to get their first vaccination before reaching this important milestone and Whanganui has 325. There were 21,744 total vaccine doses administered yesterday, including 3,374 first doses and 9,225 second doses. To date, 94% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 89% are fully vaccinated. There are 95 new community cases today: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health is saddened to report the deaths in hospital of 2 people overnight who had COVID-19. One person died at Middlemore Hospital. The second patient was admitted to Auckland City Hospital due to their COVID-19 infection. The case has been referred to the coroner. We would like to express our heartfelt condolences to the families of both of these people at this sad time. Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 1:56 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There were 21,013 total vaccine doses administered yesterday, including 2,859 first doses and 9,250 second doses. To date, 94% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 89% are fully vaccinated. There are 60 cases in hospital including: There are 63 new community cases and 2 new cases identified at the border. While we have seen a drop in case numbers today, we continue to ask everyone in New Zealand to remain vigilant. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)  Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 9:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There were 15,910 total vaccine doses administered yesterday, including 2,698 first doses; 8,446 second doses; 216 third primary doses and 4,550 boosters. To date, 94% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 89% are fully vaccinated. Vaccines administered to date: There are 61 cases in hospital: There are 103 new community cases ans 1 new case identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 12 December 2021 at 1:18 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There are 101 new community cases and 2 new cases identified at the border. There are 61 cases in hospital. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) From Wednesday 15 December, rapid antigen testing will be available for free at participating pharmacies for asymptomatic unvaccinated people aged 12 years and 3 months and over who are travelling during the holiday period. Evidence of a supervised negative rapid antigen test will be required for these unvaccinated travellers leaving the Auckland region and for domestic travel with some transport companies. As of this morning 483 pharmacies across the motu have opted in to provide these supervised tests. Of these 138 are in the Auckland region with a total of 345 in the North Island and 138 in the South Island. While some pharmacies will accept walk-ins, bookings are recommended. Please note that rapid antigen testing is for people who do not have COVID-19 symptoms. Pharmacies offering rapid antigen testing | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) While rapid antigen tests will at times give false positive results, any unvaccinated people who receive a positive rapid antigen test result will be strongly advised to seek a confirmatory PCR test. Furthermore, they will not be able to travel without a negative PCR test result so please plan ahead to allow sufficient time to get tested and receive your result. This testing is vital to ensuring we continue to pick up cases and prevent onward transmission. We know people, especially Aucklanders, are looking forward to reuniting with family and friends but if you are unwell, please stay home and get a PCR test. To meet domestic travel requirements from 15 December COVID-19 rapid antigen testing will be free until the end of January 2022. Testing requirements from 15 December 2021 Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 1:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There were 39,617 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up 7,856 first doses and 14,254 second doses. To date, 93% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 86% are fully vaccinated. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:32 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There were 9,851 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of: To date: As of 9am today, about 1,128,000 requests for a My Vaccine Pass had been processed. The system is operating smoothly, and capacity has been increased, so we encourage people to go to MyCovidRecord.health.nz to book their My Vaccine Pass to be ready for summer. How to use My Covid Record Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 22 November 2021 at 1:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There were 15,224 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of: To date, 91% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 84% are fully vaccinated. As of 10:30am today, more than 1,470,000 million requests for a My Vaccine Pass had been processed. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 23 November 2021 at 1:43 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There were 18,623 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of: To date, 92% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 84% are fully vaccinated. As at 10:30am today, more than 1,890,000 requests for a My Vaccine Pass have been processed. Request your My Vaccine Pass Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 25 November 2021 at 1:44 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There were 20,873 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up 6,378 first doses and 14,495 second doses. To date, 92% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 85% are fully vaccinated. The Ministry of Health has now issued more than 2.26 million My Vaccine Passes. You can request a My Vaccine Pass from the website, or call 0800 222 478, or head into one of these pharmacies for help getting your My Vaccine Pass. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Health officials continue to assess the latest international information on the new B.1.1529 variant, which the World Health Organization has named Omicron. As a precaution, and based on advice from the Director-General of Health, the Government yesterday added nine countries in southern Africa to the very high risk countries list, placing additional restrictions on travel into New Zealand. Knowledge about this emerging variant is in its infancy and we are closely watching and monitoring evidence and countries’ responses. Vaccine producing companies will now start assessing any impact the strain will have on vaccine efficacy. However, our advice to public remains that vaccines are the number one protection against COVID-19 – including against the Delta variant responsible for our current outbreak. There is no change to the advice on booster vaccines, which is for people over-18 to get their booster dose at least six months after their second dose. Anyone who is due a booster shot, which become available to a wider group of people from Monday, is encouraged to book using BookMyVaccine. There’s no need to rush to get the booster. The science shows fully vaccinated people remain really well protected from infection, and from being seriously ill if they do get COVID-19. There is plenty of existing stock of the Pfizer vaccine in New Zealand now and on order for everyone who needs a booster shot over coming months. We will advise on any potential impacts for New Zealand, noting that we remain in a good position to minimise the impact of any new variants with isolation and routine testing of international arrivals. Last updated: 28 November 2021 at 1:31 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There were 14,009 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of: To date, 92% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 85% are fully vaccinated. The Ministry of Health has now issued more than 2.4 million My Vaccine Passes. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 29 November 2021 at 2:16 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There were 40,972 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up 6,213 first doses and 11,862 second doses. To date, 92% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 85% are fully vaccinated. You can request a My Vaccine Pass from the website, or call 0800 222 478, or head into one of these pharmacies for help getting your My Vaccine Pass. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 30 November 2021 at 1:35 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Auckland Metro DHB (which includes Auckland, Waitematā and Counties-Manukau) has today reached the milestone of 90% of its Pacific population having had their first vaccination, with 82% now fully vaccinated. This is closely followed by the Auckland DHB's eligible Māori population, who, as of earlier today, had fewer than 20 doses to go before hitting 90% for first vaccinations. This milestone is expected to be reached later today – with 81% of its eligible Māori population also now fully vaccinated. There were 39,264 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of: To date, 93% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 87% are fully vaccinated. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 4 December 2021 at 1:38 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Two DHBs, Auckland and Capital and Coast DHBs, have now reached the milestone of 90% of their eligible Māori population having had their first vaccination. This is closely followed by four other DHBs – Waitematā, MidCentral, Hutt Valley and Wairarapa DHBs, all with eligible Māori population vaccination rates at or above 87% for first vaccinations. 88% of the total eligible population aged 12 and over is now fully vaccinated. There are 106 new community cases today: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 5 December 2021 at 1:15 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There have now been more than 3.7 million My Vaccine Passes issued, including more than 82,000 on Sunday. The first weekend with My Vaccine Passes in use went smoothly, with no major issues reported. There are 135 new community cases today: There are also 4 new cases in Nelson-Marlborough, which were reported after the official cut off time, so will be added officially to tomorrow's numbers. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 1:37 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Southern has become the fifth DHB in New Zealand to be 90% fully vaccinated, reaching this key milestone early this morning. There were 24,913 total vaccine doses administered yesterday, including 4,571 first doses and 10,652 second doses. To date, 93% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 88% are fully vaccinated. There are 98 new community cases today: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 7 December 2021 at 1:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There were 24,142 total vaccine doses administered yesterday, including 4,387 first doses and 10,093 second doses. To date, 94% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 88% are fully vaccinated. There are 90 new community cases today: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 8 December 2021 at 1:15 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There were 22,859 total vaccine doses administered yesterday, including 3,786 first doses and 9,339 second doses. To date, 94% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 88% are fully vaccinated. More than 4 million My Vaccine Passes have now been issued. It is important to note than some people have more than one pass if they have it installed on several separate devices. More than 90% of Māori in Canterbury are now at least partially vaccinated. Canterbury has become the third DHB to achieve this milestone for Māori. Counties Manukau has also achieved the 90% first dose mark for Pacific people. West Coast has become the 17th DHB to reach 90% first doses. There are 103 new community cases today: Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 1:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Work to develop comprehensive sector guidance for the COVID-19 Protection Framework, known as the traffic lights, is entering the final stages ahead of New Zealand’s transition on Friday 3 December. The COVID-19 Group within the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC) has been leading cross-agency coordination over the past few weeks to make sure detailed, practical guidance, informed by public health advice, is developed for sectors and that important changes are consulted on. This includes guidance for business and sectors such as transport, education, sport, and local government. As part of the transition, sectors are working through the information and advice that their key audiences and stakeholders need, so that the move into the new framework is made easier for everyone. The shift will ultimately provide more certainty and more freedoms for all of us, while ensuring communities at higher risk are protected from the impacts of COVID-19. Following cross-sector engagement and detailed work developing guidance for the framework colour settings, updates have been made including 2 key updates for the Red setting: Gatherings include those held at home, weddings, funerals and tangihanga, marae, social sports and places of worship. Further information about the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) Guidance for business under the framework is available at business.govt.nz (external link) Information for transport operators is available at transport.govt.nz (external link) As detailed sector guidance is finalised, agencies and organisations will be updating their websites and providing information and advice to their stakeholders. Last updated: 26 November 2021 at 11:39 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. For the most up-to-date information about our managed isolation and quarantine facilities visit the managed isolation and quarantine website. Get information about: Managed isolation and quarantine website (external link)  New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Immigration NZ has the most up to date information on the border exception criteria and process (external link) Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Managed Isolation and Quarantine (external link) Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. Advice on staying healthy Looking after mental wellbeing (external link) Last updated: 29 October 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz (external link) as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Ministers have worked with Police and Defence Force leadership on this, and there is broad support for the decision. Vaccination is our greatest tool in keeping New Zealanders safe, so we have extended vaccine requirements to include constabulary, recruits and authorised officers of New Zealand Police, and the armed forces and civilian staff of the New Zealand Defence Force. So many of the individuals within these organisations have been essential to our COVID-19 response and are already fully vaccinated. But we want to ensure that those who serve and protect our communities on a daily basis can do so without unintentionally spreading the virus. First doses of vaccinations for workers in these organisations will be required by 17 January 2022, and second doses by 1 March 2022. We already have a very high vaccination rate in the Police and it makes sense operationally to make it a requirement for the constabulary, recruits and authorised officers who have regular contact with members to be vaccinated. This is about keeping Police safe and the community safe. 92.2% of all Constabulary Police staff have received at least one dose, and 86.5% are now fully vaccinated. As they are often in contact with vulnerable communities, this is the best way that we can protect our Police staff and the public from COVID-19. The NZDF provide critical services to New Zealand, including assisting Police at regional borders, and supporting MBIE in resourcing MIQ facilities. It makes sense that they are included in the mandate and most of the NZDF’s Regular Force are already vaccinated. Our defence forces can be deployed at any time to locations where they may come into contact with COVID-19. For example, the recent mission to Afghanistan saw our defence force personnel assisting in the evacuation of New Zealand visa holders, some of whom had COVID-19. NZDF uniformed personnel are currently 98.4% fully vaccinated and civilian staff are already 75% fully vaccinated through the NZDF vaccination programme delivered earlier this year. These rates do not include those who may have received vaccinations through the public health system. While a number of other sectors have requested additional government vaccination requirements we are not progressing them at this time. Vaccine mandates are very strong legal requirements that have to be carefully considered based on a clear assessment about how justifiable they are. An increasingly large proportion of the population is double-dosed with thousands more getting vaccinated every day, and the simple vaccination assessment tool that will be available for businesses in mid-December will help to streamline the process. Last updated: 26 November 2021 at 10:34 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 11-20 of 739 updates 07 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Dec 2021 New Zealand has secured Pfizer's antiviral medicine to help treat COVID-19. 06 Dec 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 06 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 Dec 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 03 Dec 2021 Associate Minister of Health Dr Ayesha Verrall has congratulated testing teams right around New Zealand for reaching the 5 million tests milestone. 02 Dec 2021 Three positive COVID-19 cases have been confirmed in Taranaki today. 02 Dec 2021 The Ministry of Health will today email a temporary exemption from the requirement to produce a My Vaccine Pass to a small group of people. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 21-30 of 739 updates 02 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Dec 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers. 30 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Nov 2021 The settings at which different parts of New Zealand will move forward into the COVID-19 Protection Framework this Friday have been announced. 29 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 29 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Nov 2021 Booster vaccinations will be available throughout Aotearoa from Monday. 28 Nov 2021 Nine southern African countries are being added to the very high risk countries list following public health advice around the newly discovered COVID-19 variant 28 Nov 2021 The Ministry has been notified of a community case in Hawke’s Bay. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 31-40 of 739 updates 27 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Nov 2021 Commissioned by the COVID-19 Group at DPMC, TRA (The Research Agency) has undertaken surveys of the New Zealand public to check in on how people are feeling in 26 Nov 2021 Work to develop comprehensive sector guidance for the COVID-19 Protection Framework, known as the traffic lights, is entering the final stages. 26 Nov 2021 Workplace vaccination requirements to be extended to the NZ Police and Defence Force in preparation for the transition to the COVID-19 Protection Framework. 26 Nov 2021 The Ministry of Health has issued more than 2 million passes and, with demand continuing to grow, has released additional options for people to get theirs. 25 Nov 2021 Māori across the motu have now reached 80% for first doses of the COVID-19 vaccination nationally. 25 Nov 2021 Efforts to support disabled peoples’ vaccinations go from strength-to-strength with the launch of a new text service. 25 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Nov 2021 A new national testing strategy will provide better protection for high-risk groups as New Zealand transitions to the traffic light system. 25 Nov 2021 The Government is increasing the support for New Zealanders who test positive for COVID-19 through the rollout of the COVID Care in the Community model. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 41-50 of 739 updates 25 Nov 2021 The Government has announced $204.1m will be made available to support individuals and whānau who contract COVID-19 and need to isolate at home. 25 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers. 24 Nov 2021 Fully vaccinated New Zealanders and other eligible travellers can travel to New Zealand from Australia without staying in MIQ from 11:59pm on 16 January 2022. 24 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers. 23 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Nov 2021 Businesses and events will be set for summer, with the free NZ Pass Verifier app to scan and verify My Vaccine Passes now available to download. 23 Nov 2021 The Government is building on measures to protect businesses and workers as the country gets ready to transition to the traffic light system from 3 December. 22 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 22 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Nov 2021 Saliva testing for surveillance purposes for some groups of workers can be reduced from twice weekly to once a week. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 51-60 of 739 updates 21 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Nov 2021 It's the first DHB to pass the significant milestone of fully vaccinating 90% of its eligible population against COVID-19. 19 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 18 Nov 2021 A shipment of 100,000 doses of AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine have arrived in New Zealand. If you are aged 18 or over you can get the vaccine from 26 November. 18 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Nov 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 17 Nov 2021 Auckland boundary settings will change on 15 December — anyone leaving will need to be fully vaccinated or have a negative test within 72 hours of departure. 17 Nov 2021 If you are fully vaccinated, you can now request My Vaccine Pass through My Covid Record. 16 Nov 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 691-700 of 739 updates 27 Aug 2020 The Government has set aside extra funding so we can access a COVID-19 vaccine once it becomes available. 26 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 25 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 701-710 of 739 updates 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020  12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 711-720 of 739 updates 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 721-730 of 739 updates 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 731-739 of 739 updates 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. Updates about managed isolation and quarantine are available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment website. Latest updates about managed isolation and quarantine (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. Get the latest updates Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 11:06 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:50 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Follow us on social media: We are here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have 2 simple rules for a safe social community: Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 8:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. What you need to know Find out about the virus, its variants, and what symptoms to look out for. About COVID-19 Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up healthy habits, like wearing a mask and staying home when you are sick. Everyone should prepare for what they need to do if they get COVID-19. Here are some steps you can take. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. A lot of stuff changed when COVID-19 turned up in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out what it means for you and the things that are important in your life. Misinformation about COVID-19 works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. This section contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. Find the latest information and advice for whānau, hapū, and iwi Māori. Find the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities, including translations. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Last updated: 1 July 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Symptoms can include one or more of the following: Less common symptoms may include: These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: A health professional will tell you whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting. If you are outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Information about testing for COVID-19 COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID on the Ministry of Health website. Long COVID (external link) Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 12:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all traffic light settings. You can work with your doctor or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Getting your vaccination is an important step you can take to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Vaccines help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and reduce your chances of getting seriously ill or dying if you do get COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you should still take precautions, including limiting interactions with others, wearing a face covering in public, and staying home where possible. Get your COVID-19 vaccination If you have any concerns about how you will react to the vaccine talk to your doctor. Underlying medical conditions include: Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Anyone can call Age Concern New Zealand on 0800 65 2105 to get advice and support. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your doctor or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking | health.govt.nz (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you are pregnant and work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. Parental leave | employment.govt.nz (external link) Find more information about maternity care on the Ministry of Health website. Pregnant people and those who have recently given birth | health.govt.nz (external link) In the traffic light settings there is freedom to move around, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. You should keep up healthy habits and keep away from people you do not know. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. Healthy habits The Student Volunteer Army Grocery Delivery Service is available nationwide to people who are self-isolating or who have no other way to access food. To order: Access to basic needs at Red Access to basic needs at Orange Access to basic needs at Green Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 5:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations, such as the Delta variant, can spread more easily than the original virus. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant (external link) COVID-19: About the Omicron variant (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) A new strain of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, has been found. It is classified as a variant of concern by WHO and named Omicron. It has many mutations, with at least 30 on the spike protein. Early evidence suggests Omicron may be more transmissible. But research is in its early days and we are still learning about this new variant. The possibility of new variants is why we continue to perform whole-genome sequencing on every case which enters New Zealand. Unlike many other countries, travellers must still have a series of COVID-19 tests and a period of isolation. These precautions provide extra protection to reduce the chance of Omicron entering New Zealand. Omicron is still in its infancy. Health officials are currently assessing the latest international information. Any potential impacts for New Zealand will be published on this website. We remain in a good position to reduce the impact of any new variants with isolation and routine testing of international arrivals. COVID-19: About the Omicron variant (external link) COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 COVID-19 causes 2 major issues that cause harm when someone is infected — a viral attack on the body and in some cases an immune reaction. Studies for new treatments cover both issues and concentrate on 3 areas. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | health.govt.nz (external link) Pharmac is funding appropriate COVID-19 treatments for New Zealanders. The agency decides which medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand. Pharmac has secured treatments for COVID-19, including: Medsafe will assess these medicines before treatment for COVID-19. Find more information on Pharmac's website: Pharmac is funding COVID-19 treatments (external link) Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. It is only a matter of time before a positive case of COVID-19 is in your community. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness, and will fully recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Being ready for getting COVID-19 is about making sure you and your household have a plan and know what to do. It will mean your whānau and community can help each other if needed. Download the COVID-19 Readiness Checklist [PDF, 121 KB] You need to work out what you will do if someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19 — the entire household will need to stay home. Identify people outside of your home who could help if your household is isolating, for example by dropping off food or supplies. Services like The Student Volunteer Army might be able to help with drop offs and Work and Income may be able to help with costs. Are there people in your household who might need extra care or support? Talk to any in-home carers you have and agree in advance about what will happen if you need to isolate. Make plans if you have shared custody of a child or dependant. Help and support if you have COVID-19 Talk to your employer, your child’s school, and community groups to find out what their plans are. Do they need anything from you? Will they be able to support you? Will you and your children be able to work or learn from home? Work out how to let people know your household is isolating — this could be a sign for your front door or fence and having a QR code poster so people can keep track of where they have been. If people are helping with contactless drop offs, do you want them to text or message before they arrive? Beep the car horn from the gate? Use an agreed entrance? We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Get your QR code poster Write down any household instructions someone else could easily follow if you get sick and have to go into managed isolation or hospital. Cover things like feeding pets, paying bills and watering plants. Think about how you could set up your home to minimise COVID-19 spreading. Draw a map of your home and mark out your zones, for example shared areas, isolation areas, and a sanitising station. Work out what you will need to help yourself and those around you. Make sure the people who matter know what they will need to do. We are all in this together and we will get through together. Find contact and support services Help and support if you test positive for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 What to expect when self-isolating at home What to expect if you go into managed isolation  Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 3:58 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples, disabled people and youth. Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This page contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. A lot of stuff changed when COVID-19 turned up in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out what it means for you and the things that are important in your life. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. A lot of stuff changed when COVID-19 turned up in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out what it means for you and the things that are important in  your life. Many of us are finding things tricky at the moment. It's OK to ask for help. Find support and tips for how to cope. Alert Level changes can mean that your schooling or uni study changes too. Find out what to do. Do these easy things to keep yourself and others safe. For many people, COVID-19 has meant changes to their job. If you can't work, find out about what support you could get. Support is available from different communities. Find out where you can go. We're on TikTok, Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and LinkedIn. Last updated: 1 October 2021 at 1:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Do these easy things to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19, so that we all get back to doing the things we love. There are easy steps we can all take to help keep us healthy, like getting vaccinated, wearing a mask and scanning when we go places. It helps to understand why we're all doing this: to protect ourselves and everyone around us.  Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 1:51 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Different traffic light settings mean different things for schools, universities and other training places. You might need to study at home if you do not have a My Vaccine Pass. Being at home can make it hard to focus on school work, especially when everyone else is at home too. Studying can be stressful, but there are techniques you can use to cope. The Lowdown has advice. Study stress | The Lowdown (external link) You can get help and tips about preparing for NCEA Maths, Sciences and English exams at StudyIt. You can post an NCEA exam question on its discussion forum and a teacher/facilitator will respond. StudyIt | studyit.govt.nz (external link) Auckland University has tips for studying at home, including staying active, keeping in touch with friends, and making to-do lists. Tips for studying at home | Auckland University (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:51 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. It's OK to feel a bit worried or overwhelmed about COVID-19 and what it means for you. You can ask for help if you need it. Many of us are finding things tricky at the moment. It is OK to ask for help. There are many places you can get help. Here's some especially for rangatahi. Life can be pretty stressful sometimes and our thoughts can bring us down. Melon has techniques on how to accept yourself, build confidence and manage your emotions to help you get through. Melon | melonhealth.com (external link)  Voices of Hope has lots of techniques to help with your mental health. Voices of Hope on Instagram (external link)  Feeling stressed or anxious about COVID-19 is normal for a lot of us. The Lowdown has tips on how to handle stuff, like deep breathing, doing something active, and staying connected to your mates. The Lowdown | lowdown.co.nz (external link) Everyone has mental health. Learning how to look after your mental health creates ‘Mental Wealth’. Make yourself rich in mental wealth so you can spend it on taking care of yourself and others. MentalWealth | mentalwealth.nz (external link)  Youthline provides a free Helpline service, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to young people, whatever is going on for you. Contact by text, phone, webchat and email. Youthline | youthline.co.nz (external link)  We've got a bigger list on this website. Looking after your mental health (external link)  Last updated: 1 October 2021 at 1:32 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Share and connect with others who are going through the same stuff as you. Last updated: 22 October 2021 at 4:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Your job might have changed because of COVID-19. Find out what support is available and what to do next. Last updated: 22 October 2021 at 4:08 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. This section contains information about COVID-19 and vaccination for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. Getting a COVID-19 vaccine protects you, your whānau and your community. The vaccine teaches your body how to fight the virus. It will protect you from getting very sick if you do get COVID-19. It protects your whānau and friends because you are less likely to pass COVID-19 on to people around you. If you are worried about getting the vaccine, you can talk to a trained advisor in the Healthline disability team. The team is made up of people who have experience of a disability themselves, or who have worked with the disabled community. They will support you, your whānau or someone you care for and answer any questions you may have about: The disability team is available Monday to Friday, from 8am to 8pm.  My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. You may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter venues like cafes, bars and gyms and go to events. There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass: If you need help, call 0800 28 29 26 and press 2 to speak to the disability team. Once you get your pass, save it on your phone, or print it out and keep it in a safe place. Remember to take your My Vaccine Pass with you wherever you go. How to get your My Vaccine Pass Information about My Vaccine Pass — Easy Read [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass — Easy Read [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about My Covid Record — Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record — Easy Read [PDF, 1.7 MB] If you have decided you want to get the vaccine, it is easy to get vaccinated. You can get your vaccination at: You can also talk to, text or email a trained advisor to discuss whether a home vaccination is right for you. Some vaccination centres are fully accessible. Your family, whānau and support workers are also welcome to get their vaccinations with you. Fully accessible vaccination centres Map of vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand | karawhiua.nz (external link) You can book your vaccination by: Book My Vaccine (external link) Here is a list of the most accessible vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand. You can take a support person with you when you get your vaccination. This can be a carer, or someone else you trust. When you get to the vaccination site, you will need to sign in. If you need an NZSL interpreter or information in an accessible format, please ask. When it is your time to get vaccinated, the staff will ask you whether it is okay to give you the vaccine. If you say yes, this is called consent. If you cannot give consent, someone who is allowed to make decisions for you can give consent for you. The vaccinator may also ask you questions about how you are feeling, and what medication you take. It is normal to feel scared or worried. Ask the vaccinator if you have any questions. You will need to wait for 15 minutes after your vaccination. If this is hard for you, ask if you can wait somewhere else.        You can choose to get the vaccine. You can say yes or no or ask for help making your decision. For disabled people or people with an impairment, the journey to get vaccinated may look a little different. We have created the Manaakitanga Journey online tool to help support disabled people to get vaccinated. If you are supporting someone with a disability to make a decision about getting the COVID-19 vaccine, you can use one of the supported decision making tools. Choose the guidance tool or combination of tools that best suits the person you are supporting. Even though face coverings are mandatory in many places, we know that some people who have a disability may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your face covering exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have a face covering exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you are having trouble communicating with someone who is wearing a face covering, you can ask them to remove it during your conversation. You can request a card from the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz It is okay to be worried about COVID-19. If you feel like this, it is important to look after your mental health. There are websites you can visit and phone lines you can call if you need help. Check our the free services and resources available to you If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to get financial assistance. Financial support for individuals and whānau It is important that you continue to access the disability services you need. Talk to your care provider to find out if there any changes to how you access any services because of traffic light settings. Find information about COVID-19 in alternate formats: Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 11:14 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You might be interested in: If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Check out free services and resources These guidelines were developed to clarify public health measures and support marae to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their whānau, hapū, and iwi . We acknowledge that many iwi have already put together COVID-19 response plans for their hapū and marae. Marae should contact their tribal authority in the first instance if they have further questions. Karawhiua is a campaign for whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Karawhiua is led by Te Puni Kōkiri, co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite against COVID-19 teams. Learn more about vaccines at the Karawhiua website (external link) Ruthie was 7 months hapū, with her baby Hope, when she contracted COVID-19 last year at a tangihanga. She shares her experience of being the first hapū māmā with COVID-19 in Aotearoa and her thoughts on the vaccine. Ruthie’s story is part of the Te Puni Kōkiri-led Karawhiua campaign which encourages whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities to make an informed choice about getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Watch Ruthie’s full story at Karawhiua (external link) Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 10:02 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information in Pacific languages: Check out the range of free services and resources available to you It's time to dial up the talanoa, helping our youth to navigate COVID-19 conversations with their parents, family and peers. Let's Talanoa with Dr Lesina Nakhid-Schuster and Rokalani Lavea. The Ministry for Pacific Peoples has created an educational video about the Pfizer vaccine that is also available in 9 Pacific languages. When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. The vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 12 and over. It will help to protect Aotearoa from COVID-19. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Get your COVID-19 vaccination Make sure you get the latest news and updates from reliable sources. Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 10:39 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you should get a test. You must stay home until you get a negative result. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you are helping to keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 If you do get COVID-19, we will be able to quickly find the people you have been in contact with if you have kept track of where you have been. This is contact tracing. The faster we can trace your contacts, the faster we can prevent any further spread of the virus throughout New Zealand. The easiest way to do this is using the NZ COVID Tracer app or booklet. How contact tracing works Keep track of where you have been Face coverings can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are useful in poorly ventilated indoor areas and when you are around people you do not know. They stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This is particularly useful when someone has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. You must wear a face covering in some locations. Wear a face covering Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Using hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs on your hands. Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. The risk of becoming infected with COVID-19 increases the closer you are to a person and the longer you are close to that person. The risk is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. The risk is lower outside when there are fewer people, and when you are further away from others. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. Find out more about reducing the risk of COVID-19 through ventilation | health.govt.nz (external link) You are not required to maintain physical distance from others in the traffic light system. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it is in the community. Last updated: 8 December 2021 at 3:56 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has had exposure to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] You can find QR code posters at many locations you visit. Scan these using the NZ COVID Tracer app to create a private digital diary of the places you visit. The app keeps us one step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we will be. You can also turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you have been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Think of it like your phone is giving a digital high-five to other people's phones. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Learn more about the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of: Download or order the NZ COVID Tracer booklet Certain businesses and event organisers legally must have a way for you to record that you have entered their premises or attended a gathering or event. Locations legally must have more than one way for you to record your visit, especially if you are not able to scan QR codes. Ways you will be able to record your visit include: Businesses still need to continue displaying a QR code poster even if it is not required to collect customer records. Record keeping and contact tracing for businesses Get your QR code poster   Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:45 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you have been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there is a case of COVID-19 in the community, and stop it from spreading. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to: Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. Bluetooth tracing does not replace scanning QR codes — you still need to keep track of where you have been. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people you have been near. Think of it like your phone is giving a digital high-five to other people's phones. You do not have to have the app open for it to work, but you do need to have Bluetooth on your phone turned on. It does not use mobile data or drain your phone battery. Bluetooth tracing is entirely anonymous. No personal or identifying information swaps between phones. Bluetooth tracing cannot track your movements. No one will ever see who you have been near, or when or where you were near them, even if you test positive for COVID-19. How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link)     Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we will be. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own paper notebook. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of: Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet If you have questions or feedback about the app or any problems using it: At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster if you are a: Get your QR code poster Information on record keeping and contact tracing for businesses Get information about the NZ COVID Tracer app in other languages and alternate formats. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you are ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you want a booklet and cannot print your own. If you are an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. When you are out and about, remember to wear a mask, scan in, and have My Vaccine Pass ready so that we can all enjoy summer. Wear a mask or face covering when out and about. Depending on the traffic light setting, there are some places you must wear one. Scan everywhere you go or keep a record manually. This is especially important on holiday because you may not remember all the locations you visited or who you saw. Have My Vaccine Pass ready for places that require proof of vaccination to enter, like cafes, bars, gyms and hairdressers. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling If you are hosting or inviting people into your home here are some tips to keep everyone safe. Get a NZ COVID Tracer poster (external link) Follow the advice for holding gatherings at Red and Orange: If you are unwell or have been exposed to a COVID-19 case, contact Healthline for advice and to arrange a test immediately. It might be tempting to continue with your Christmas plans, but you play an important role in protecting others from becoming unwell, including from COVID-19, by limiting their exposure to anyone who is sick. While you are unwell or waiting for a negative test result: Phone Healthline: 0800 358 5453 Testing services will be available throughout the Christmas, New Year and the holiday period. If you need to get a test, call Healthline or check Healthpoint for details of the nearest testing service, including opening hours. Look after yourself and your whānau this festive season and summer holidays. Take any opportunity to rest and enjoy a break. We all need a bit of support from time to time, and if you or someone you know is struggling, there is free help available. Mental wellbeing support (external link) Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 11:27 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. COVID-19 spreads by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and others. It is mandatory to wear a face covering on domestic flights. You are encouraged to wear a face covering in public indoor settings. We encourage you to wear a face covering whenever you leave the house. It is mandatory to wear a face covering: We encourage you to wear a face covering whenever you leave the house. It is mandatory to wear a face covering: For some people wearing a face covering is unsuitable. If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. Find a list of exemptions — where a face covering does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. Who does not need to wear a face covering Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. A face covering needs to go over your nose and mouth. A suitable reusable or disposable face covering is needed to help protect against the airborne spread of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended as it is less effective than a face covering that covers your nose and mouth. Dust masks are also not recommended, as they have a one-way valve which can allow droplets to spread. Many stores and online retailers now offer face coverings. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to buy one. You can make one with what you have available at home. How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face coverings in different sectors. Face covering requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health has information about the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) in a health and disability care setting. PPE in health and disability care settings | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 7 December 2021 at 10:11 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Take a clean piece of cotton material — for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase. Cut into a square, if it is not already. Fold it from the top inwards a third of the way down. Fold from the bottom inwards, a third of the way up. You should have an rectangle of material, folded into 3 layers. Loop your hair ties or elastic bands over the ends of the folded material. Leave enough room in the middle to comfortably cover your mouth and nose. Fold the outer edges inwards. This adds an extra layer of material over your mouth and nose. It also helps hold the face covering together. Pick up the face covering by the bands. Loop them over 1 ear at a time. Wear the face covering with the join against your face. Make your own face covering with just a handkerchief or t-shirt and 2 hair ties. Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut out a rectangle from the water-resistant fabric for the middle layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take 1 piece of your cotton fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of cotton fabric together. Make sure the cotton that will be on the outside of your face covering is turned inwards here. Lay the water-resistant fabric on top of your cotton fabric. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face covering in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. Last updated: 7 October 2020 at 11:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Never share face coverings with other people. We do not recommend face coverings be worn by: Do not re-use a mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. Before you put on your face covering, clean and dry your hands. Use either: Make sure it is: Place the face covering over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face covering should: Use either: If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your face covering down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: Take your face covering off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the face covering, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth face coverings by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the face covering completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp face covering. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face coverings. Use either: The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face covering safely. Last updated: 26 August 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There are some situations where a face covering does not need to be worn. We also know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to food, pharmacies and other services. In general, you should wear a face covering whenever you can. The Delta variant is more transmissible by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. An exemption card is available that you can show to transport operators, retailers and service providers. Exemption cards are not mandatory but make it easier whenever you need to explain that a face covering is unsuitable for you. Sometimes the reason why a face covering is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face covering. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face covering. If you cannot wear a face covering, you need to keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. Last updated: 7 December 2021 at 10:34 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Getting through together | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:47 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and the vaccine work against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. I f you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 12:03 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine from a number of trusted sources, including: Find answers to all your vaccine questions, including how safe it is and what side effects you might get, and watch videos about vaccines. COVID-19 vaccines questioned answered | covid19.govt.nz Check out the health advice for you about COVID-19, vaccines, testing, how to take care of yourself and much more. COVID-19: Health advice for the public | health.govt.nz (external link) Find trusted information for you and your whānau on Karawhiua. It is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. Karawhiua | karawhiua.nz (external link) When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. Watch COVID-19 vaccine educational videos to find out about the vaccination journey and how the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine works. COVID-19 information from the Ministry for Pacific Peoples | mpp.govt.nz (external link) Your local district health board (DHB) has information about health and disability services in your region, including information on vaccinations. District health board websites | health.govt.nz (external link) You can also keep up to date by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (IMAC) provides New Zealanders with a local source of independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research regarding vaccine-preventable diseases and the benefits and risks of immunisation. Immunisation Advisory Centre | immune.org.nz (external link) The World Health Organization works worldwide to promote health, keep the world safe, and serve the vulnerable. World Health Organization | who.int (external link) You may need to engage with someone or a group who are spreading false and misleading information within your community or online. It is easy to feel compelled to go and directly confront them. This is not the ideal approach and it may not always be obvious to them what information is not true or factual. Here are some tips on how you might address the situation: Download printed guidance for responding to false information. Guidance for responding to false information [PDF, 759 KB] There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video Last updated: 29 November 2021 at 10:38 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. We can all help stop the spread of misinformation by reporting fake accounts, or pages and domains that repeatedly post or share misinformation. Most misinformation and disinformation is legal. And people have the right to express their opinion. But if you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: Report to Netsafe any online harms including bullying and harassment, misinformation and hate speech/extremism. Report harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Misinformation, including leaflets and scams, can also be reported to CERT NZ. Report COVID-19 misinformation (external link)  Scammers look for ways to trick people into sharing their personal or financial details. Scams and fraud exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police on 105 . Call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link)  There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video Last updated: 29 November 2021 at 10:39 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There is misinformation and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what it means. There are 3 kinds of misinformation: You might see all of them on social media, including memes, on websites, videos, and in publications, like pamphlets that arrive in your letterbox. They can cause harm because you might make decisions about your health based on the incorrect information that you read or hear. Often misinformation is not deliberately created to harm you. But it is really important that you do not share it, so that it does not spread. Harmful online content includes cyberbullying and inappropriate material, such as violent and sexual material that can cause emotional and physiological distress. Online bullying (also known as cyberbullying) occurs when someone uses digital technology to send, post or publish content intended to cause harm to another person. It can include: Netsafe describes distressing content as content that is hateful content, sexual material or illegal material (like age-restricted material or extreme violence). Offensive or illegal content may include topics, images or other information that could be prohibited in New Zealand. The content can also be upsetting to a young person when they discover it. It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. Netsafe has more information, advice and resources about how to stay safe online. Netsafe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Keep It Real Online has information for tamariki (children) and rangatahi (young people) about being safe online, and also has tools and resources for parents and caregivers. Keep It Real Online | keepitrealonline.govt.nz (external link) You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video Last updated: 29 November 2021 at 10:38 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Looking for information in other languages? Information in 30+ languages Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. What you need to know The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. NZ COVID Tracer App Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 2:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. Close Contacts may live or work with someone who has COVID-19. Find advice on what you and your household members need to do. Casual and Casual Plus contacts have been at the same place at the same time as someone with COVID-19. Find advice on what you and your household members need to do. Last updated: 17 June 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Casual Plus Contacts are people who are unvaccinated and were near someone infectious with COVID-19. This will only be in some specific situations like at a school. Stay home for 7 days from your last contact with the case. Isolate from others in your household if you can. Get a test straight away and on day 5 after your last contact with the case. You can leave the house after 7 days and once you have received a negative day 5 test result. Monitor for symptoms for 10 days. If you develop symptoms after day 5, get a test immediately and stay home until you get a negative test result. Casual Contacts are people who have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone infectious with COVID-19. But they may not have been near the infectious person. Casual Contacts are at lower risk of getting sick with COVID-19. Watch for symptoms and if you do get symptoms:  You are not required to get a test or isolate if you live with someone who is a Casual or Casual Plus contact. This applies to both vaccinated and unvaccinated people.  There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Financial support You can find more information and advice on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 5:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You are considered a Close Contact you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You may live, work or have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone with COVID-19. For example, household members, travellers on a plane, or if you sit next to someone at work who has COVID-19. Close Contacts are at higher risk of getting COVID-19. If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you can expect to be contacted by someone from the Ministry of Health’s National Investigation and Tracing Centre or a Public Health Unit. You may receive an orange Bluetooth notification via the NZ COVID Tracer app. The notification will provide advice about what to do and it is important to follow these instructions. You may also receive a yellow QR notification for a location of interest via the NZ COVID Tracer app. You should get tested immediately. Whether you are vaccinated or not, you need to: If you are fully vaccinated , you need to: You are fully vaccinated if it has been 7 days or more since you got your second dose. If you are not fully vaccinated , you need to: You are not fully vaccinated if you have had no doses, 1 dose, or it has been less than 7 days since you got your second dose. You are considered a secondary contact if someone you live with a Close Contact who is: If you are also unvaccinated then you are advised to stay at home until the Close contact in your household receives a negative day 5 test result. If you become symptomatic after day 5, you need to isolate until you return another negative test result. You are not required to isolate or get tested. There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment You can find more information and advice on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link)  Last updated: 10 June 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. More about contact tracing — Ministry of Health website (external link) A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. You could be one of three types of contacts: If you are identified as a contact and use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you may get a notification that will provide advice and more information. The Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit may also contact you. Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you are considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a COVID-19 test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. The person with COVID-19 is interviewed along with the people they live and work with. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes. If they have, this gives us all the information needed to: It helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code was not available. If they have not used the app, there is a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be sent via the app, warning others of the risk. If you have scanned in somewhere that someone with COVID-19 has been at the same time, you will see a yellow alert on the app dashboard. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, and it identifies you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you will see an orange alert on the dashboard. Find out more about the different NZ COVID Tracer alerts you can get | health.govt.nz (external link) If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app will get information telling them they may have had exposure to COVID-19. This will include information on what you should do next to protect yourself, your whānau and the community. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been If you own or run a business:   Last updated: 4 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Anyone in New Zealand can get a free COVID-19 test. You do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. Community-based testing for COVID-19 is available through district health boards and public health units across the country. Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested for COVID-19. The Government requires most workers crossing the Auckland boundary to have a negative COVID-19 test. Personal travel across the Auckland boundary is strictly limited to minimise the spread of the virus. You may need evidence of a COVID-19 test. Some countries need travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. Last updated: 21 August 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you are told to get a test by a health official or fall under mandatory testing, your COVID-19 test is free of charge. For example, if you work at the border or are a contact of a confirmed case. Testing for these purposes is free regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that you can get your test results. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it is helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) In New Zealand there are 3 types of tests for COVID-19: Rapid antigen tests are not mandatory and will not be suitable for everyone. It is up to businesses to choose whether they want to accept rapid antigen tests. Rapid antigen tests offer: Rapid antigen tests are not : Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers leaving Auckland who: The tests will be also available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: Pharmacies offering rapid antigen tests can be found on the Healthpoint website: COVID-19 testing: Supervised rapid antigen testing | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you get a positive result, you will need to get a get a follow-up PCR test from your doctor or community testing centre. Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you are subject to regular testing. The vaccine is highly effective if people have both doses. Studies have shown that 95% of people who received both doses of the vaccine were protected against getting seriously ill. If you do get COVID-19, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill or spread the virus to others. Research is still ongoing to determine whether a vaccinated person can still pass the virus to someone else. So we must assume there is still risk of transmission. Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 2:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you are travelling to New Zealand, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. Travellers from Antarctica and most Pacific islands do not need to get pre-departure tests.. Travellers from Australia are required to get PCR or RT-PCR tests. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 5:52 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. From 3 to 14 December 2021, you can only travel into and out of Auckland for permitted reasons. Port Waikato is included in the boundary with Auckland. Check the list of permitted travel. It will tell you: Check if your travel is permitted You can travel across the Auckland boundary in either direction. You need to carry evidence with you. You may also need evidence of a COVID-19 test. Most people aged 12 and over need to get a test before crossing the boundary from Auckland, whether by land or air. There is an exception for people who travel into Auckland for a medical appointment (including vaccinations), and then leave to return home. They do not need a test when leaving Auckland. You do not need to get tested when crossing the boundary one-way into Auckland, or if you travel straight across Auckland without stopping. Please note that you cannot get a saliva test for personal travel across the boundary. You cannot cross the boundary. Download a table that summarises the testing requirements for personal travel. Testing requirements when travelling out of the Auckland boundary for permitted personal travel [PDF, 101 KB] From 15 December 2021 to 17 January 2022, you can travel into and out of Auckland for any reason but you must follow some restrictions to leave Auckland. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: You do not need to follow these restrictions if you are transiting through Auckland without stopping. Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to get tested or have a My Vaccine Pass to travel out of Auckland. Get your My Vaccine Pass Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers leaving Auckland who: Find a community pharmacy or testing centre (external link) Travellers can still use a negative PCR test to meet any travel requirements, but it is not recommended. Using a rapid antigen test will allow our laboratories to focus on processing PCR tests so symptomatic people and close contacts of confirmed cases can receive their results sooner. Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 2:08 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Travel across the boundary is restricted to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Workers who are moving around create more risk of transmission of the virus than people who are staying at home. This additional testing will provide assurance that travel is being done safely. Most employers of workers who need to cross the Auckland boundary for work must have a process in place to allow workers to be tested for COVID-19. This includes allowing workers to undergo testing, medical examination, or both, during their work hours. Most workers crossing the boundary must now carry: Workers must get tested or be examined in the 7 days before they cross the boundary. Workers also must still carry evidence of their reason to cross the boundary, for example the Business Travel Document, work order or employer letter. There are police check points to stop unnecessary travel. There is no cost for workers who get a test for this purpose. Testing is available at community testing sites around Auckland or at GPs, and saliva testing is an option. Workers do not need to stay home or stay away from work while they wait for their test result. Find testing locations in your area | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Find out more about the testing options | health.govt.nz (external link)  A text message that confirms completion of a test will be sent to the worker. This will be automatically generated at the location where the test was taken, and can be shown as evidence. Paper confirmation will also be available from testing centres that do not use the automated system, for example GP practices. This can also be shown as evidence of a test. If the worker has had an examination instead of a test, they must have an electronic or paper copy of the medical certificate. You should carry evidence of your purpose of travel and destination. You do not need to carry evidence you have been tested. This is because you are exempt. This evidence of your purpose and destination could be: Those exempted from boundary surveillance testing requirements include workers carrying out duties in relation to the following businesses or services: Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:20 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. When you go for a test, wear a face covering, scan in using the QR code on site, and if possible take your NHI number with you. This is likely to speed up the process. You can find your NHI number on a hospital letter, a prescription or prescription receipt. The Ministry of Health has also set up a new 0800 number that you can call to find out: 0800 855 066 . If you need to get a test for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There is more than one way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by your doctor or Healthline that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. When you get a test, your health professional will tell you how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If a result is positive, you will hear back within 48 hours. Negative tests can take a bit longer to return. If you have not received your result after 5 days, please contact your doctor or the testing centre. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will tell you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive You can now see recent COVID-19 test results on My Covid Record. When you log into your account, you will be able to view all the test results you have had in the last 90 days, including the type of test and the date of the result. Please note: If a test comes back positive, there will be a delay of 72 hours before it shows up in your My Covid Record account. This allows time for a health professional to contact you about your test result and provide advice. My Covid Record (external link) If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link)   Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 10:48 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test. If you are unsure, a health professional can let you know. Call: COVID-19 symptoms Check the locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website and follow the instructions on what to do. Locations of interest in New Zealand — health.govt.nz (external link) If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: By calling Healthline, people who have been at locations of interest are logged into the contact tracing system. This means you can get your test results back faster. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. Most workers who need to cross the Auckland/Port Waikato boundary must get tested. Testing of workers when crossing the Auckland boundary From 3 to 14 December 2021, you can only travel into and out of Auckland for permitted reasons. Check if your travel is permitted If your reason to travel is permitted, you may need evidence of a COVID-19 test. There is no cost to get a test for this purpose. Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to get tested or have a My Vaccine Pass to travel out of Auckland. Testing requirements from 3 to 14 December From 15 December 2021 to 17 January 2022, you can travel into and out of Auckland for any reason but you must follow some restrictions to leave Auckland. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to get tested or have a My Vaccine Pass to travel out of Auckland. Testing requirements from 15 December Some transport providers, such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators, may require you to show a your My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding. The test must be taken within 72 hours before your journey. You must arrange and pay for it yourself. Testing of unvaccinated people who wish to leave Auckland is free. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to get tested or have a My Vaccine Pass Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 4:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Healthpoint lists testing locations by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Search for a testing location near you (external link) Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers leaving Auckland who: The tests will be also available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: Pharmacies offering rapid antigen tests can be found on the Healthpoint website: COVID-19 testing: Supervised rapid antigen testing | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you get a positive result, you will need to get a get a follow-up PCR test from your doctor or community testing centre. Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 2:44 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. You may be interested in Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 has visited. You are a contact if you have been at a location of interest at the specified time. Check the locations of interest and follow the health advice of the Ministry of Health. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link)  If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately isolate at your home or accommodation and either: Record your visit online (external link) If you record your visit online, you do not need to call Healthline. Contact tracers will call or email you and let you know what you need to do. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live with someone who has been at a location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: Members of the household who were not at a location of interest can only leave home to exercise. They can exercise while waiting for the results of their test if they keep 2 metres apart from others. People in the household are not permitted to go to the supermarket or visit other essential services. We encourage you to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to drop off groceries and other essential supplies to you. If you work in a managed isolation or quarantine facility, or you provide an essential health service, you can leave home to go to work earlier than day 5. You must meet other criteria. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 gives special powers to a medical officer of health to prevent the outbreak or spread of any infectious disease. A Section 70 order is issued to make sure you understand it is very important that you follow the advice given by public health units. A Section 70 order allows a medical officer of health to require those in the order to: People must follow the order immediately. Find out more about Section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) Exposure events sometimes do not need to be made public, because everybody there is known and can be followed up. There are many more exposure events than there are locations of interest, and not all exposure events become locations of interest. The Ministry of Health has guidance to support New Zealand businesses that have been identified as a location of interest after a visit by a confirmed or probable COVID-19 case. In most cases, a public health official will call and talk you through what this means for your business. However, there may be some occasions, for example outside business hours, when it may not be possible to contact you immediately. Guidance for businesses | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:22 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. New Zealand is now at Red and Orange settings. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. What you need to know Find out what traffic light settings are in place around New Zealand. Traffic light map At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 2:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. New Zealand is in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights. This new approach to COVID-19 will introduce more freedoms for vaccinated New Zealanders. The framework will continue to protect New Zealanders, while also providing more certainty and new opportunities. It minimises the impact and provides protection from COVID-19 through 3 settings - Green, Orange and Red. Minimisation means we are aiming to keep the spread of COVID-19 and hospitilisations at as low a level as possible. Outbreaks will be contained and controlled, and if practical, stamped out. There will likely be some level of cases in the community on an ongoing basis. Protection means that we will protect people from the virus, with vaccination, infection prevention and control, and general public health measures (for example contact tracing, case management and testing). Response will also focus on minimising significant health impacts through treatment and support. We will also protect people’s health, by ensuring we are not letting cases go to the point where the impacts have flow-on effects to impact other health services. The framework is intended to give as much certainty and stability as possible for people and businesses, reducing the need for widespread lockdowns. High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. My Vaccine Pass is the official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. Similar to the Alert Level settings, the capacity limits specified are based on 1 metre distancing. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable the use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Under the framework localised lockdowns and protections can be used in addition to the three levels, if needed to control high rates of transmission. If your business, service, or activity is not captured specifically in the Framework you must follow the public health measures specified in the general settings. At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. COVID-19 Protection Framework summary table [PDF, 66 KB] COVID-19 Protection Framework detailed table [PDF, 207 KB] Printable 2-page guide to traffic light settings: COVID-19 Protection Framework summary: Taking care of each other at Red, Orange and Green [PDF, 1.7 MB] Last updated: 4 December 2021 at 11:58 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, everything can be open. Remember — being vaccinated will give you greater protection. Many businesses and venues can choose to open with no restrictions on numbers if they follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there will be limits on the number of people who can be in a venue at one time. You will be legally required to provide your My Vaccine Pass to enter places that have vaccination requirements in place under the traffic lights. This may include hospitality venues, events, gatherings and gyms. You cannot be asked to provide your My Vaccine Pass to access basic needs services, such as supermarkets, public transport, and essential health care. My Vaccine Pass Gatherings and visits such as at home, church, and marae can go ahead at Green. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Green. Businesses and workplaces can open at Green with no restrictions. Hospitality venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Green, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Green. At Green, all education facilities including early childhood centres, schools, kura and tertiary providers are open. You can move house and buy or sell your home at Green. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Businesses and workplaces can open at Green with no restrictions. Workplaces are open at Green. Some jobs require staff to be vaccinated. These include: Workers in businesses covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate need to be vaccinated. This applies to food and drink services (excluding businesses that operate solely as takeaways), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. Workers in these businesses must be fully vaccinated, even if the business chooses not to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a business is only offering takeaway food and drink, then workers do not need to be vaccinated. Vaccine information for businesses My Vaccine Pass mandate | business.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination assessment tool | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidance for employers and employees | employment.govt.nz (external link) Retail businesses and workplaces can choose whether they require My Vaccine Pass for customers and visitors. If they do not, they may have to follow some restrictions. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. They can also switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring My Vaccine Pass. This could happen in places such as cafes where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a business chooses to switch: If you enter a business as a visitor or customer, follow the vaccine pass requirements at the venue. You may be required to show your My Vaccine Pass to access the service. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in the community. If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, or you are self-isolating because you have tested positive for COVID-19, your employer can apply for financial support for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information: Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters  Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 8:34 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. At Green, all education facilities including early childhood centres, schools, kura and tertiary providers are open. Early learning services, schools and kura are open at Green for all tamariki (children). Students can attend tertiary institutions and training organisations in person at Green. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 1:53 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Early learning services, schools and kura are open at Green for all tamariki (children). Schools between 3 December 2021 and 1 January 2022 At Green, early learning centres, kōhanga reo, schools and kura can open with public health measures in place, for example, extra cleaning and keeping records of visitors to help with contact tracing. School events or activities like performances, cultural events, camps, sports practices, and interschool events can go ahead. At Green, playgroups can open if parents and staff are fully vaccinated. Parents and staff will be required to show their My Vaccine Pass when they are on site. If a playgroup chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, services will be restricted. Staff, visitors and parents and caregivers must stay 1 metre apart. Staff working at the playgroup must wear a face covering. Playgroups that operate on a school or early learning site or are run by a home-based childcare provider must be vaccinated under the vaccination order and keep a vaccine register. Some OSCAR staff must be fully vaccinated. If staff are not fully vaccinated, it is up to the OSCAR programme provider to decide if they want to continue operating at Green, depending on public health advice. Face coverings are encouraged for all students indoors at school — but they are not a requirement. Face coverings are also encouraged when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We encourage parents, caregivers and other adult visitors to wear a face covering when visiting early childhood centres, schools and kura. Wearing a face covering Children and parents or caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: At education sites, some people must be fully vaccinated to have contact with children and students. This includes: An on-site register will be kept. A small number of staff and teachers are able to apply for an exemption. Education sector vaccinations If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an early learning service, school or kura, the early learning service or school will work the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for schools and kura with a confirmed case of COVID-19 | education.govt.nz (external link) If you are sick, waiting for your COVID-19 test results or have been asked to self-isolate you should stay home, and not go to your educational facility. Your school, kura, or tertiary facility should provide distance learning options if you need to stay home. Talk to your education provider if you or your child needs to learn from home. Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Green Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 8:29 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Students can attend tertiary institutions and training organisations in person at Green. Tertiary institutions and training facilities can open, with public health measures, such as wearing face coverings encouraged indoors. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials, and meetings in person. Your tertiary provider may choose to require My Vaccine Pass for you to attend in-person learning (unless an exemption applies). Check with your provider about their requirements. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. If you want to visit a tertiary education library, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Green  Student accommodation can open. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass for residents and staff. Check with your provider about their requirements. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Accommodation at Green Travel at Green Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. You must wear one on flights at Green. When to wear a face covering If you are sick, waiting for your COVID-19 test results or have been asked to self-isolate you should stay home, and not go to your educational facility. Your school, kura, or tertiary facility should provide distance learning options if you need to stay home. Talk to your education provider if you or your child needs to learn from home. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Tertiary education providers can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary education providers | education.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 2:11 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Green. Indoor and outdoor events can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Public facilities can open at Green with no restrictions. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 1:53 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Indoor and outdoor events can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Examples are: Advice on community sporting events If an event organiser chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the venue. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. This applies to events held at both indoor and outdoor venues. You can serve food and drink, and attendees do not need to be seated at table to eat or drink. You can travel anywhere to attend an event. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you will not be allowed to attend. If an event organiser chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, they can only have 100 people in a single defined space. Attendees must keep 1 metre apart. This applies to both indoor and outdoor events. If an event organiser is open to people with and without My Vaccine Pass, everyone must be seated at a table to eat and drink. You can move around when not eating or drinking. Customers at a cinema, theatre or stadium do not have to be seated at a table and are able to eat drink from their seats. Outdoor community gatherings must follow the gathering guidelines. They are gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration. Examples are: Gatherings at Green Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Public facilities can open at Green with no restrictions. All public facilities can open at Green. Examples of public facilities include: Public facilities can choose whether they operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show your My Vaccine Pass at the venue. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 1 December 2021 at 3:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Gatherings and visits such as at home, church, and marae can go ahead at Green. At Green, you can have friends and whānau visit your house, and host parties and gatherings. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Marae can open at kākāriki (green) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Green. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 1:54 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Green. It is up to the staff and the whānau or family to agree if the funeral or tangihanga is only open to people with My Vaccine Pass or to a mix of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. If everyone has My Vaccine Pass, there is no limit to the number of people who can attend, both indoors and outdoors. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga or burial. Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). There is no limit to how many people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. If staff and whānau choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under 12, but not staff. You can serve food and drink. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements — they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. Marae can choose whether to allow people without My Vaccine Pass to attend a tangihanga. If people without My Vaccine Pass are allowed, tangihanga are limited to 100 people. Multiple groups of 100 people can attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae can also choose to switch between allowing people with and without My Vaccine Pass to attend. Groups cannot be on the marae at the same time. For example, 100 people who do not have My Vaccine Pass could attend a tangihanga in the morning. After cleaning, another group of 100 people with My Vaccine Pass could attend the tangihanga later in the day. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Green Up to 100 people can view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). The limit can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff who are attending. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, churches or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 12:15 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Marae can open at kākāriki (green) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. At K ākāriki, gatherings at marae can go ahead. It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether: Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. Guidelines for marae to operate safely under the traffic light system [PDF, 5.7 MB] Summary of guidelines for marae [PDF, 53 KB] If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the marae. There is no limit to the number of people who can be on a marae at a time. In practice this might look like 100 people in the wharenui, 100 people in the wharekai, 20 people on the ātea and 80 people waiting to be welcomed on. Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. Tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass, but they are included in number counts where restrictions apply. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Green Funerals and tangihanga at Green If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, they must check vaccine passes for everyone on the marae — this can be either sighting the My Vaccine Pass, or verifying it with an app. The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that marae can use to verify My Vaccine Passes. At large gatherings, marae can choose to spot check vaccine passes if verifying every My Vaccine Pass is difficult. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) It is up to manuhiri to present their My Vaccine Pass on entry. Marae are not required to check ID, but they can request it. Marae should make reasonable efforts to ID tamariki under 12 years and 3 months. This might include asking tamariki their age, date of birth or year at school. When you are ready to check My Vaccine Pass for your manuhiri, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters  If a marae chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, there can be up to 100 people on the marae at a time — as long as groups who are fully vaccinated do not mix. In practice this might look like 50 people in the wharenui, 25 people in the wharekai including ringawera and 25 people on the ātea. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae.    You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti  — marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside, particularly if gatherings are a mixture of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. Marae can choose to require vaccine passes or not. You cannot change mid-gathering. If any member of the whānau pani, paepae, taumata or ringawera is not fully vaccinated, gathering restrictions will apply as if My Vaccine Pass is not being used. If a marae chooses to allow people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass to attend gatherings, marae must make sure:  Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:07 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. At Green, you can have friends and whānau visit your house, and host parties and gatherings. Under the traffic light system, household bubbles do not exist. Examples of gatherings that can go ahead at Green include: Visiting friends and whānau at Green Funerals and tangihanga at Green Gatherings at a marae at Green Community and social sport at Green  If a gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes workers. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. This applies to gatherings at your home, and gatherings at other venues. This also applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. If a venue for a gathering chooses not to operate with vaccine pass requirements: They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. It includes children under 12, but does not include staff.  You can serve food and drink at your gathering, with no extra requirements. Advice for hospitality venues at Green Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, churches or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 2:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Green. You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), household bubbles do not exist. Examples include: Follow the advice for private gatherings. Private gatherings at Red You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep their staff and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. You can visit friends and whānau in prison with restrictions. Visitors to prisoners must have had at least one COVID-19 vaccine dose. Only people with a My Vaccine Pass will be allowed to visit. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You will need to show a printed copy of your My Vaccine Pass to prison staff on arrival. Prison sites may also have other public health measures in place, for example, you may be required to complete a health or temperature check. Check with the prison site before you visit. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:08 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Hospitality venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Green with no restrictions if they follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. If a hospitality venue chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There are no limits on the number of people you can drink or dine with. You do not have to be seated to be served. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, y ou can pick up takeaways if the venue has a contactless way to do this. You must scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community.  If a hospitality venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements there can be up to 100 people, based on 1-metre distancing, in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children, but not staff. You will have to be seated and separated from other groups. This means you must remain seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your meal. Dance floors are closed. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. You must scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 4 December 2021 at 11:49 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can move house and buy or sell your home at Green. You can move house at Green. You can use a moving company to relocate. If you are travelling between regions that are at different settings, follow the travel requirements. Travel at Green If you are a property manager or landlord, you should not visit your tenant's home if they are sick or are self-isolating. Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) If you are travelling between regions that are at different settings to view properties, follow travel advice. Travel at Green If an open home or auction chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there, including at open homes or auctions. There are no limits on the number of people who can attend. If an open home or auction chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 100 people in a single defined space. Everyone attending needs to keep 1 metre apart. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Real estate agencies can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Moving companies can find more information on business.govt.nz Advice for services | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 12:20 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Green, and visit other retail outlets. Everyone is entitled to access services that provide basic needs, such as food, healthcare and public transport. Shops and retail outlets can open at Green with no restrictions. Close-proximity businesses can open at Green, with My Vaccine Pass.. You can have tradespeople and home services, such as cleaners, inside your home at Green. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 1:53 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Everyone is entitled to access services that provide basic needs, such as food, healthcare and public transport. You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass to access these places and services: Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz. (external link) (external link) Health providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz. Advice for health providers under the COVID-10 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz. (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:26 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Close-proximity businesses can open at Green, with restrictions. Examples of close-proximity businesses include: If a close-proximity business chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You must scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. If a close-proximity business chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, services will be restricted. Everyone must stay 1 metre apart except for when close physical contact is needed to provide the service. Staff must wear face coverings. Customers and clients are encouraged to wear a face covering. You must scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Close-proximity businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity business advice | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Shops and retail outlets can open at Green with no restrictions. All shops and services, including outdoor markets and banks, can operate at Green. Shops can choose whether they operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show your My Vaccine Pass. There are no limits on the number of people that can be inside. Everyone will always be able to access essential services like food, regardless of their vaccination status. Access to basic need services If a retail shop provides a close-proximity service, like make-up application or clothes fittings, then they need to follow advice for close-proximity businesses. The rest of the store only needs to follow the retail rules. Close-proximity businesses at Green Scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Retailers can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:27 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can have tradespeople and home services, such as cleaners, inside your home at Green. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Green. Examples of trades and home services are: Tradespeople should keep a record of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you: What to do if you are told to self-isolate Stay home if you are sick Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Tradespeople and businesses that provide home services can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can attend sports events and play sport at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 6:31 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Green with restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. At Green, you can do all your usual recreation activites. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. You can travel anywhere for recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. Gyms and indoor recreation facilities such as dance studios, yoga studios, health clubs, bowling alleys and ice skating rinks can open. If the facility chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There are no limits on the number of people that can be inside. If the facility chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, they are limited to 100 people, based on 1-metre distancing. This can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. Advice for gyms and indoor recreation facilities | business.govt.nz (external link) Indoor and outdoor swimming pools, saunas and steam rooms can open with no restrictions with My Vaccine Pass requirements. Learn to swim classes can continue. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public swimming pools are not required to ask for your My Vaccine Pass. Public facilities at Green If you want to go to a private swimming pool that chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There is no limit to the number of people who can be present. Find out how to get My Vaccine Pass If a private swimming pool chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, they are limited to 100 people. This can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. Parks, playgrounds, sports grounds and other outdoor recreation facilities such as skate parks can open to everyone. You can use playground equipment and benches in public spaces. Private clubs such as golf or tennis clubs can choose to restrict their facilities to vaccinated people only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead at Green. If the business organising the class chooses to f ollow vaccine pass requirements, you must show your My Vaccine Pass to participate. There are no limits on the number of people who can attend. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you will not be allowed to participate. Find out how to get My Vaccine Pass If the business organising the class chooses not to f ollow vaccine pass requirements, classes are limited to 100 people. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass.  Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters   Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:32 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can attend sports events and play sport at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. Outdoor community sport, like organised social touch rugby and group training sessions, can go ahead. There are no requirements for physical distancing while playing or watching sport. If the organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. There is no limit to the number of people who can participate or attend as spectators. If the organiser chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, community sports are limited to 100 people in a single defined space at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. If you are playing at a large sportsground with multiple fields, you can have: If you are playing in or watching sport at a controlled-access event, for example, an athletics competition at a stadium with controlled entry, then you must follow the rules for events. Events at Green Organised indoor sport, for example at an arena, can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. This includes playing social sport with friends. If you are playing or watching sport at a venue that chooses to check vaccine passes, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. There are no limits on the number of people who can participate, or attend as spectators. We encourage you to wear a face covering when you are not playing. If the indoor sport venue chooses not to check vaccine passes, indoor sports are limited to 100 people in a single defined space at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass, and includes both participants and spectators. We encourage you to wear a face covering when you are not playing. If you are playing or watching sport at a controlled-access event, for example, a netball game that you need to buy tickets for, then you must follow the rules for events. Events at Green Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters  Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 9:24 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Green. You can travel at Green, but you must wear a face covering on flights. Accommodation can open at Green with no restrictions. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 1:53 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Accommodation can open at Green with no restrictions. All accommodation services can open. This includes: Accomodation providers can open to people with and without a My Vaccine Pass, with no restrictions. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an accommodation facility, follow the relevant advice: From 15 December 2021, everyone over the age of 12 must have a My Vaccine Pass to stay in a DOC hut or campsite. Visitors will be asked about their vaccination status when they book a DOC hut or campsite. Hut wardens may also carry out spot checks to make sure everyone has their My Vaccine Pass. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you can still use the DOC tracks and toilets, but you will not be allowed to stay overnight. Staying in a DOC hut or campsite | doc.govt.nz (external link) Cafes, bars and restaurants inside accomodation venues should follow the rules for hospitality businesses. Hospitality venues at Green Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 11:40 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can travel anywhere at Green, but you must wear a face covering on flights. You do not need to show a vaccine pass to use public transport, as these services are needed to access services for basic needs such as food and healthcare. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, at bus stops or train stations. You are not required to wear a face covering on public transport. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community.  Some transport providers, such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators, may require you to show a vaccine pass or negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. The test must be taken within 72 hours before your journey. Testing for this purpose is not available at community testing centres. If you need a test to travel before 15 December 2021, you must arrange and pay for it yourself. Testing of people who are not fully vaccinated who are travelling out of Auckland is free. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at community pharmacies from 11:59pm 14 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers who are: Find a community pharmacy or testing centre (external link) You must wear a face covering on flights. We encourage you to wear a face covering in the terminal. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Between 15 December 2021 and 17 January 2022, you can travel into and out of Auckland for any reason but you must follow some restrictions to leave Auckland. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to get tested or have a My Vaccine Pass to travel out of Auckland. You do not need to follow these restrictions if you are transiting through Auckland without stopping. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers leaving Auckland who: Find a community pharmacy or testing centre (external link) About free rapid antigen tests Port Waikato is included in the boundary with Auckland, and travellers across the boundary must follow the same rules. From 18 January 2022, there will be no restrictions on travel out of Auckland. When travelling into a different setting area, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. While vaccination is highly effective, it is still possible to get COVID-19. You may get it while you are away from home, even if you are following the rules. You should prepare for what you may need to do if this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling If you have been told to self-isolate because of COVID-19, you must not travel. What to do if you are told to self-isolate If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you must not travel. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Transport operators can find more information: Advice for transport operators about COVID-19 Protection Framework | transport.govt.nz (external link) Advice for transport, freight and logistics | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 4:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, people can continue to do everyday activities. There are restrictions to limit the spread of the virus and protect vulnerable people. But you can go to work, school, gyms, church, restaurants, and many more places. Most businesses can open with no restrictions on numbers if they choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, and only allow people with My Vaccine Pass to enter. If they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there will be limits on the number of people who can be in a venue at one time. You will be legally required to provide your My Vaccine Pass to enter places that have vaccination requirements in place under the traffic lights. This may include hospitality venues, events, gatherings and gyms. You cannot be asked to provide your My Vaccine Pass to access basic needs services, such as supermarkets, public transport, and essential health care. My Vaccine Pass Gatherings and visits, such as at home, church, and sport locations, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange with some restrictions. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange, with restrictions. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face covering. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange, with restrictions. Last updated: 7 December 2021 at 2:35 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Workplaces are open at Orange. Employees should talk to their employers about working at Orange. Most businesses and workplaces can choose whether they check My Vaccine Pass for customers and visitors. If they do not, they may have to follow some restrictions. They can also switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring My Vaccine Pass. This could happen in places such as funeral homes where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a business chooses to switch: Some jobs require staff to be vaccinated. Workers in businesses covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate need to be vaccinated. This applies to food and drink services (excluding businesses that operate solely as takeaways), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. Workers in these businesses must be fully vaccinated, even if the business chooses not to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a business is only offering takeaway food and drink, then workers do not need to be vaccinated. Vaccine information for businesses If you enter a business as a visitor or customer, follow the My Vaccine Pass requirements at the venue. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass, either by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Businesses that are subject to My Vaccine Pass requirements are expected to check My Vaccine Pass for people on their premises, including workers. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face covering: We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information: Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters  Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 8:33 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face covering. Schools will move to the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) from 1 January 2022. Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. Students can attend tertiary institutions and training organisations in person at Orange. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 9:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Children can attend early learning services, playgroups and schools at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. Schools between 3 December 2021 and 1 January 2022 Certified playgroups can open with My Vaccine Pass requirements, or by following the rules for close-proximity businesses. That means you must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you should not enter the venue as you are not allowed to be there. Playgroups that operate on a school or early learning site or are run by a home-based childcare provider must be vaccinated under the vaccination order and keep a vaccine register. All licensed early learning services can open with public health measures in places. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face coverings on site. Parents and visitors are encouraged to maintain 1-metre distancing from other adults while on site, for example to settle your child, or to view a service. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Face coverings are encouraged, but not required, when inside at school. All ākonga aged 12 and up must wear face coverings on public transport and school transport. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face coverings on site. You do not need to wear a face covering when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We strongly encourage you to. A small number of staff, teachers and students are able to apply for an exemption. Wearing a face covering Children and parents or caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: At education sites, some people must be fully vaccinated to have contact with children and students. This includes: An on-site register will be kept. A small number of staff and teachers are able to apply for an exemption. Education sector vaccinations If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an early learning service, school or kura, the early learning service or school will work the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for schools and kura with a confirmed case of COVID-19 | education.govt.nz (external link) If you are sick, waiting for your COVID-19 test results or have been asked to self-isolate you should stay home, and not go to your educational facility. Your school, kura, or tertiary facility should provide distance learning options if you need to stay home. Talk to your education provider if you or your child needs to learn from home. Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students are encouraged to wear face coverings in communal areas, and keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Orange Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 2:55 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Schools will move to the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) from 1 January 2022. Schools in Auckland will continue to follow Alert Level 3 Step 2 settings until 1 January 2022 when you move to the traffic light settings. Schools outside Auckland will continue to follow Alert Level 2 settings, even if your region moves to Red, until 1 January 2022 when you will move to the traffic light settings. At Alert Level 2, all schools and kura are open to everyone. Schools should put extra public health control measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and keep staff, students and tamariki safe. Schools should provide distance learning options for tamariki who cannot attend school — for example, if they need to self-isolate. School events or activities like performances, cultural events and sports can continue. Ākonga and teachers do not need to physically distance. But parents, carers and whānau who visit the school should try to keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. School students are allowed to travel. Follow travel guidance. Travel at Orange Face coverings in schools is strongly encouraged for those aged 12 and over, but it is not a requirement. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 2:55 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Students can attend tertiary institutions and training organisations in person at Orange. Tertiary institutions and training facilities can open, with public health measures, such as wearing face coverings strongly recommended. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials, and meetings in person. Capacity limits are based on 1-metre distancing. Your tertiary provider may choose to require My Vaccine Pass for you to attend in-person learning (unless an exemption applies). Check with your provider about their requirements. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Tertiary education libraries follow the rules for public facilities. They may choose to follow My Vaccine requirements. Public facilities at Orange Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. If you are sick, waiting for your COVID-19 test results or have been asked to self-isolate you should stay home, and not go to your educational facility. Your school, kura, or tertiary facility should provide distance learning options if you need to stay home. Talk to your education provider if you or your child needs to learn from home. Student accommodation can open. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass for residents and staff. Check with your provider about their requirements. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Orange Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face covering in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face covering everywhere else. When to wear a face covering COVID-19 vaccinations are free. If you need help with costs to get to a vaccination centre, talk to StudyLink about how they can help you. COVID-19 vaccination travel | studylink.govt.nz (external link) Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Tertiary education providers can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary education providers | education.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 2:06 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange, with restrictions. Events can go ahead at Orange, although some may have restrictions. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Orange with restrictions. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 9:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Events can go ahead at Orange, although some may have restrictions. Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Orange with My Vaccine Pass. Examples are: If an event organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. Events cannot go ahead if My Vaccine Pass requirements are not followed. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Outdoor community gatherings must follow the gathering guidelines. They are gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration. Examples are: Gatherings at Orange Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face covering in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face covering everywhere else. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 30 November 2021 at 12:47 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Orange with restrictions. There is no limit on how many people can be inside a public facility, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing. Examples of public facilities include: Public facilities may operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass at the facilities. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. You must wear a face covering at public facilities, excluding swimming pools. Wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 11:06 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Gatherings and visits, such as at home, church, and sport locations, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. You can have a gathering at Orange, like meeting friends, holding a wedding and attending church, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Orange with no restrictions if everyone attending is fully vaccinated. Marae can open at Karaka (Orange) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Orange. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 9:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Orange. It is up to the staff and the whānau or family to agree if the funeral or tangihanga is only open to people with My Vaccine Pass or to a mix of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. If everyone has My Vaccine Pass, there is no limit to the number of people who can attend, both indoors and outdoors. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga or burial. You can serve food and drink. Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku. Up to 100 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone has My Vaccine Pass. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you have My Vaccine Pass. This can include: Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. If a venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 50 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under 12, but not staff. You can serve food and drink. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements — they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. Marae can choose whether to allow people without My Vaccine Pass to attend a tangihanga. If people without My Vaccine Pass are allowed, tangihanga are limited to 50 people. Multiple groups of 50 people can attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae can also choose to switch between allowing people with and without My Vaccine Pass to attend. Groups cannot be on the marae at the same time. For example, 50 people who do not have My Vaccine Pass could attend a tangihanga in the morning. After cleaning, a group of 100 people with My Vaccine Pass could attend the tangihanga later in the day. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Orange Up to 50 people can view the tūpāpaku. The limit can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff who are attending. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face coverings. We encourage you to wear a face covering whenever you leave your home. Wear a face covering Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, churches or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 30 November 2021 at 12:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Marae can open at Karaka (Orange) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. At Karaka , gatherings at marae can go ahead. It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether: Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. Workers and volunteers at marae must wear a face covering. Guidelines for marae to operate safely under the traffic light system [PDF, 5.7 MB] Summary of guidelines for marae [PDF, 53 KB] If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the marae. There is no limit to the number of people who can be on a marae at a time. In practice this might look like 40 people in the wharenui, 80 people in the wharekai including ringawera, 10 in the ablution area and 20 people on the ātea. Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. Tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass, but they are included in number counts where restrictions apply. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Green Funerals and tangihanga at Green If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, they must check vaccine passes for everyone on the marae. The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that marae can use to verify My Vaccine Passes. At large gatherings, marae can choose to spot check vaccine passes if verifying every My Vaccine Pass is difficult. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) It is up to manuhiri to present their My Vaccine Pass on entry. Marae are not required to check ID, but they can request it. Marae should make reasonable efforts to ID tamariki under 12 years and 3 months. This might include asking tamariki their age, date of birth or year at school. When you are ready to check My Vaccine Pass for your manuhiri, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters    If a marae chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, there can be up to 50 people on the marae at a time — as long as groups who are fully vaccinated do not mix. In practice this might look like 40 people in the wharenui, 5 people in the wharekai including ringawera and 5 people on the ātea. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti  — marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside, particularly if gatherings are a mixture of vaccinated and non-vaccinated people. People serving or handling kai must wear a face covering. Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. Marae can choose to require vaccine passes or not. You cannot change mid-gathering. If any member of the whānau pani, paepae, taumata or ringawera is not fully vaccinated, gathering restrictions will apply as if My Vaccine Pass is not being used. If a marae chooses to allow people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass to attend gatherings, marae must make sure:  Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 2:48 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can have a gathering at Orange, like meeting friends, holding a wedding and attending church, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can gather with anyone at Orange, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. Under the traffic light system, household bubbles do not exist. Examples of gatherings that can go ahead at Orange include: More information is available for funerals and tangihanga If a gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes workers. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. There is no limit to how many people can be at the venue. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. If a venue for a gathering chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements: They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. The limit includes children. It does not include staff. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 698 KB] Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, churches or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: You can serve food and drink at your gathering. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue for your gathering, you do not need to follow the hospitality rules for the service of food and drink. Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face covering: We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 2:47 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Orange. You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), household bubbles do not exist. Examples include: Follow the advice for private gatherings. Private gatherings at Orange You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. You must wear a face covering when visiting an aged care facility. Wear a face covering Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep their staff and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. You must wear a face covering when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Wear a face covering Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Health professionals can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Information for health professionals | health.govt.nz (external link) You can visit friends and whānau in prison with restrictions. Visitors to prisoners must have had at least one COVID-19 vaccine dose. Only people with a My Vaccine Pass will be allowed to visit. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You will need to show a printed copy of your My Vaccine Pass to prison staff on arrival. Prison sites may also have other public health measures in place, for example, you may be required to complete a health or temperature check. Check with the prison site before you visit. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face covering in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face covering everywhere else. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 4 December 2021 at 11:27 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange with no restrictions if they follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a hospitality venue chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Y ou will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue . This includes delivery drivers who enter to pick up orders. There are no limits on the number of people who can be at the venue. You do not have to be seated to be served. People without a My Vaccine Pass will be able to pick up takeaways if the venue has a contactless way to do this. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Orange Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. If a hospitality venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, it can open for contactless pick-up or delivery only. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face covering: We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 1:56 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can move house at Orange. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Between 3 December 2021 and 17 January 2022 there are travel requirements if you are travelling into or out of Auckland. Follow the travel advice if this applies to you. Travel advice Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) During open homes and property inspections, we encourage you to keep 1 metre apart from other people at the property. There are no limits to the number of people who can attend. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Between 3 December 2021 and 17 January 2022 there are travel requirements if you are travelling into or out of Auckland. Follow the travel advice if this applies to you. Travel advice Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face covering in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face covering everywhere else. When to wear a face covering Real estate agencies can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Moving companies can find more information on business.govt.nz Advice for services | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 30 November 2021 at 9:30 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. Shops and retail outlets can open at Orange with restrictions. Close-proximity businesses can open at Orange, with vaccine passes and restrictions. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Orange. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 9:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass to access these places and services: Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face covering in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face covering everywhere else. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Health providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz. Advice for health providers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz (external link) Aged care providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz COVID-19: Aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Let customers and visitors know what My Vaccine Pass requirements you are operating under by displaying a My Vaccine Pass poster. Download My Vaccine Pass posters  Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:00 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Close-proximity businesses can open at Orange, with vaccine passes and restrictions. You can visit a close-proximity business at Orange if you have a My Vaccine Pass. There is no limit to how many people can be present. Examples are: If a close-proximity business chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. Close-proximity business cannot open if they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face covering: We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:01 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Shops and retail outlets can open at Orange with restrictions. Shops, including outdoor markets and banks, can open with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing. They can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this will not affect their capacity limits. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter the shop. You must wear a face covering if you are visiting a shop. Everyone will always be able to access basic needs like food. Access to basic needs at Orange If you are a close-proximity service within a retail setting, for example a make-up artist within a makeup store, then you must follow the close-proximity rules. The rest of the retail store only needs to follow the retail rules. Close-proximity businesses at Orange Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face covering: We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Retailers can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:01 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Orange. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at any traffic light setting. Examples of trades and home services are: While they are inside your house it is strongly recommended you: Tradespeople are required to wear a face covering when inside people’s homes, and to keep a record of where they go. Tradespeople and businesses that provide home services can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:02 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange, with restrictions. You can attend sports events and play sport at Orange, with restrictions. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Orange with vaccine passes and restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 6:07 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Orange with vaccine passes and restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Orange with vaccine passes and restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. You can travel anywhere for recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Orange Gyms and indoor recreation facilities such as dance studios, yoga studios, health clubs, bowling alleys and ice skating rinks, can open with vaccine passes and restrictions. If the facility chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. A facility cannot open if it chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. Indoor and outdoor swimming pools, saunas and steam rooms can open with vaccine passes and restrictions. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Orange If you want to go to a private facility that chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. There is no limit to the number of people who can be present. A private facility cannot open if it chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead at Orange with vaccine passes and restrictions. If the business running the class chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, you must show your vaccine pass when you are at class. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. If the business running the class chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements there can be up to 50 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without a My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children, but not staff. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Parks, playgrounds, sports grounds and other outdoor recreation facilities such as skate parks can open to everyone. Private clubs such as golf or tennis clubs that are not members-only indoor exercise facilities, can choose to restrict their facilities to people with My Vaccine Pass only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face covering in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face covering everywhere else. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters   Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:04 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can attend sports events and play sport at Orange, with restrictions. Outdoor community sport, like organised social touch rugby, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. If a venue for outdoor community sport chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. If a venue for outdoor community sport chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 50 people in a single defined space at any time, based on 1-metre physical distancing. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: The capacity limit includes children, but not staff. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Orange Organised indoor sport, for example at a stadium or indoor arena, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. If an indoor sport organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. If the indoor sport venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 50 people in a single defined space at a venue at any time, based on 1-metre physical distancing. They can be a mix of vaccinated and unvaccinated people. The limit includes children, but not staff. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Orange Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face covering in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face covering everywhere else. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters  Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 3:04 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason at Orange. Accommodation can open at Orange without restrictions. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 9:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Accommodation can open at Orange without restrictions. Accommodation can open at Orange. There are no capacity limits. This includes: If you are holding an event or a gathering at accommodation, follow the relevant advice: From 15 December 2021, everyone over the age of 12 must have a My Vaccine Pass to stay in a DOC hut or campsite. Visitors will be asked about their vaccination status when they book a DOC hut or campsite. Hut wardens may also carry out spot checks to make sure everyone has their My Vaccine Pass. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you can still use the DOC tracks and toilets, but you will not be allowed to stay overnight. Staying in a DOC hut or campsite | doc.govt.nz (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. If the accommodation service contains a hospitality venue, they need to follow advice for hospitality services. Hospitality at Orange  Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face covering in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face covering everywhere else. When to wear a face covering Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can travel anywhere for any reason at Orange. From 3 to 14 December 2021, you can only travel into and out of Auckland for permitted reasons.  Between 15 December 2021 and 17 January 2022, you can travel into and out of Auckland for any reason but you must follow some restrictions to leave Auckland. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to get tested or have a My Vaccine Pass to travel out of Auckland. You do not need to follow these restrictions if you are transiting through Auckland without stopping. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers leaving Auckland who: Find a community pharmacy or testing centre (external link) About free rapid antigen tests Port Waikato is included in the boundary with Auckland, and travellers across the boundary must follow the same rules. From 18 January 2022, there will be no restrictions on travel out of Auckland. When travelling into a different setting area, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. Travel at Red If you have been told to self-isolate because of COVID-19, you must not travel. What to do if you are told to self-isolate If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you must not travel. While vaccination is highly effective, it is still possible to get COVID-19. You may get it while you are away from home, even if you are following the rules. You should prepare for what you may need to do if this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling Some transport providers, such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators, may require you to show a vaccine pass or negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. The test must be taken within 72 hours before your journey. Testing for this purpose is not available at community testing centres. If you need a test to travel before 15 December 2021, you must arrange and pay for it yourself. Testing of unvaccinated people who wish to leave Auckland is free. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: Testing requirements for asymptomatic unvaccinated travellers You must wear a face covering: Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community.  You do not need to show a vaccine pass to use public transport, as these services are needed to access services for basic needs such as food and healthcare. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, at bus stops or train stations. You must wear a face covering: Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. You must wear a face covering: We recommend you wear a face coverings whenever you leave your home. Wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Transport operators can find more information: Advice for transport operators about COVID-19 Protection Framework | transport.govt.nz (external link) Advice for transport, freight and logistics | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 12:58 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. There are restrictions on where we can go at Red. But there are also everyday things that everyone can do. You can meet friends and whānau inside and outside, go shopping, access healthcare, attend school and travel. Being vaccinated will give you greater protection.  You will be legally required to provide your My Vaccine Pass to enter places that have vaccination requirements in place under the traffic lights. This may include hospitality venues, events, gatherings and gyms. You cannot be asked to provide your My Vaccine Pass to access basic needs services, such as supermarkets, public transport, and essential health care. My Vaccine Pass Gatherings and visits, such as at home, church, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead with My Vaccine Pass requirements and public facilities can open with restrictions at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face covering. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements at some locations. Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 3:04 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Workplaces can open at Red. If it is appropriate for your job, you can work from home. Talk to your employer about what is appropriate for you. Most businesses can choose whether they use My Vaccine Pass for customers and visitors, but there will be restrictions if they do not, including possibly needing to close. They can also switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring My Vaccine Pass. This could happen in places such as funeral homes where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a business chooses to switch: Some jobs require staff to be vaccinated. Workers in businesses covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate must be vaccinated. This applies to food and drink services (excluding businesses that operate solely as takeaways), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. The mandate also applies to on-site tertiary education when Red settings are in place. Workers in these businesses must be fully vaccinated, even if the business chooses not to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a business is only offering takeaway food and drink, then workers do not need to be vaccinated. Vaccine information for businesses If you enter a business as a visitor or customer, follow the My Vaccine Pass requirements at the venue. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass, either by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Businesses that are subject to My Vaccine Pass requirements are expected to check My Vaccine Pass for people on their premises, including workers. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some circumstance where you must wear a face covering: We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information: Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters  Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 8:53 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face covering. Schools will move to the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) from 1 January 2022. Children can attend early childhood centres, playgroups, schools and kura at Red, and must follow public health measures. Students can attend tertiary institutions and training organisations in person at Red with My Vaccine Pass. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 9:18 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Red, and must follow public health measures. Schools between 3 December 2021 and 1 January 2022 Certified playgroups can only open with My Vaccine Pass requirements. That means you must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. Playgroups that operate on a school or early learning site or are run by a home-based childcare provider must be vaccinated under the vaccination order and keep a vaccine register. All licensed early learning services can open with public health measures in places. Parents/caregivers who can supervise their children at home should do so. This does not prevent parent-led services from opening. If required, services will be able to make choices about their capacity to manage attendance. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are required to wear face coverings on site. Parents and visitors are encouraged to maintain 1-metre distancing from other adults while on site, for example to settle your child, or to view a service. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. All ākonga (students) Years 4 and up must wear face coverings indoors and when in close contact with others. Staff and teachers must wear face coverings when teaching and supporting children in Years 4 and up. This includes: All ākonga aged 12 and up must wear face coverings on public transport and school transport. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face coverings on site. You do not need to wear a face covering when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We strongly encourage you to. A small number of staff, teachers and students are able to apply for an exemption. Wearing a face covering Children and parents or caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: At education sites, some people must be fully vaccinated to have contact with children and students. This includes: An on-site register will be kept. A small number of staff and teachers are able to apply for an exemption. Education sector vaccinations If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an early learning service, school or kura, the early learning service or school will work the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for schools and kura with a confirmed case of COVID-19 | education.govt.nz (external link) If you are sick, waiting for your COVID-19 test results or have been asked to self-isolate you should stay home, and not go to your educational facility. Your school, kura, or tertiary facility should provide distance learning options if you need to stay home. Talk to your education provider if you or your child needs to learn from home. Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students are encouraged to wear face coverings in communal areas, and keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Red Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 1:46 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Schools will move to the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) from 1 January 2022. Schools in Auckland will continue to follow Alert Level 3 Step 2 settings until 1 January 2022 when you move to the traffic light settings. Schools outside Auckland will continue to follow Alert Level 2 settings, even if your region moves to Red, until 1 January 2022 when you will move to the traffic light settings. Tamariki in Years 1 to 10 can attend school for face-to-face learning — this may be full-time or part-time. Each school or kura will decide what works best for their learners. Your child's school should be in contact with you to let you know how they are operating. Staff and students in Years 4 to 10 are required to wear a face covering indoors, unless they are exempt. We encourage parents or caregivers whose tamariki have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable to apply for an exemption for their child in preparation for their return to school. Exemptions from face coverings Ākonga (students) in Years 11, 12 and 13 in Alert Level 3 areas can attend school for face-to-face learning. Ākonga who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 should continue to learn from home, unless they are fully vaccinated. At Alert Level 3, only curriculum related events and activities can go ahead. Other gatherings are not permitted. Ministry of Education has more advice for school events. Information about activities, events and gatherings | education.govt.nz (external link) Guidelines for events and activities during December 2021 | education.govt.nz (external link) All ākonga and staff must wear a face covering when at school, unless they are exempt. This includes on school transport services. All NCEA and Scholarship exams will continue and will follow public health guidelines. Ministry of Education resources and advice for parents and whānau for learning from home (external link) School students are allowed to travel. Follow travel guidance. Travel at Red At Alert Level 2, all schools and kura are open to everyone. Schools should put extra public health control measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and keep staff, students and tamariki safe. Schools should provide distance learning options for tamariki who cannot attend school —for example, if they need to self-isolate. School events or activities like performances, cultural events and sports can continue. Ākonga and teachers do not need to physically distance. But parents, carers and whānau who visit the school should try to keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. School events or activities like performances, cultural events and sports can continue. Ākonga and teachers do not need to physically distance. But parents, carers and whānau who visit the school should try to keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. Ministry of Education has more advice for school events. Information about activities, events and gatherings | education.govt.nz (external link) Guidelines for events and activities during December 2021 | education.govt.nz (external link) School students are allowed to travel. Follow travel guidance. Travel at Red Face coverings in schools is strongly encouraged for those aged 12 and over, but it is not a requirement. Wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 11:24 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Students can attend tertiary institutions and training organisations in person at Red with My Vaccine Pass. Tertiary students with a My Vaccine Pass will be able to attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person. They can access research spaces, student support and advisory services. Capacity is based on 1-metre distancing. Tertiary education libraries follow the rules for public facilities. They may choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. Public facilities at Red Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Tertiary students who do not have My Vaccine Pass will be offered distance learning options. Staff and students must wear a face covering at tertiary education facilities when accessing services such as student health, pharmacies, banks and other retailers on campus. In other places at tertiary facilities, face coverings for those aged 12 and over is strongly encouraged. When to wear a face covering If you are sick, waiting for your COVID-19 test results or have been asked to self-isolate you should stay home, and not go to your educational facility. Your school, kura, or tertiary facility should provide distance learning options if you need to stay home. Talk to your education provider if you or your child needs to learn from home. Student accommodation can open. Students are encouraged to wear face coverings in communal areas, and keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. There is no requirement for residents or staff in student accommodation to be vaccinated. Accommodation at Red Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Tertiary education providers can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary education providers | education.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 2:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Events can go ahead with My Vaccine Pass requirements and public facilities can open with restrictions at Red. Events can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 9:18 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Events can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. Examples are: If an event organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people in a defined space at the venue at any time, based on 1-metre physical distancing. This includes children, but not staff. Events cannot go ahead if My Vaccine Pass requirements are not followed. When food and drink is being served, you must remain seated and separated. You can move around when you are not being served or eating. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Outdoor community gatherings must follow the gathering guidelines. They are gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration. Examples are: Gatherings at Red Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some circumstance where you must wear a face covering: We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 2:56 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions. There is no limit on how many people can be inside a public facility, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing. Examples of public facilities include: Public facilities may operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass at the facilities. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community.  Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some circumstance where you must wear a face covering: We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 2:19 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Gatherings and visits, such as at home, church, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can have a gathering at Red, like getting together with friends, holding a wedding and attending church, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Red. Last updated: 1 December 2021 at 8:37 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Red. It is up to the staff and the whānau or family to agree if the funeral or tangihanga is only open to people with My Vaccine Pass or to a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. If the funeral or tangihanga is following My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people in a single defined space at the venue at any time, both indoors and outdoors. The limit includes children under 12, whānau pani and ringawera. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga, burial or viewing. You can serve food and drink. A marae can have multiple groups of 100 people coming through to attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). Up to 100 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. If a venue chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 25 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under 12, but not staff. You can serve food and drink. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements—they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. Marae can choose whether to allow people without a My Vaccine Pass to attend a tangihanga. If they are allowed, tangihanga are limited to 25 people. Multiple groups of 25 people can attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae can also choose to switch between allowing people with and without My Vaccine Pass to attend. Groups cannot be on the marae at the same time. For example, 25 people who do not have My Vaccine Pass could attend a tangihanga in the morning. After cleaning, a group of 100 people with My Vaccine Pass could attend the tangihanga later in the day. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Up to 25 people can view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). The limit can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff who are attending. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face coverings. We encourage you to wear a face covering whenever you leave your home. Wear a face covering Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, churches or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 30 November 2021 at 3:51 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. At Whero , gatherings at marae can go ahead. It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether: Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. Workers and volunteers at marae must wear a face covering. Guidelines for marae to operate safely under the traffic light system [PDF, 5.7 MB] Summary of guidelines for marae [PDF, 53 KB] If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the marae. There can be up to 100 people at any time on a marae. In practice this might look like 40 people on the ātea, 50 people in the wharenui and 8 people in the wharekai, including the ringawera. Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. Tamariki under 12 years and 3 months cannot be vaccinated, but they are included in number counts where restrictions apply. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, they must check vaccine passes for everyone on the marae. The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that marae can use to verify My Vaccine Passes. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) It is up to manuhiri to present their My Vaccine Pass on entry. Marae are not required to check ID, but they can request it. Marae should make reasonable efforts to ID tamariki under 12 years and 3 months. This might include asking tamariki their age, date of birth or year at school. When you are ready to check My Vaccine Pass for your manuhiri, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters If a marae chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, there can be up to 25 people on the marae at a time — as long as groups with and without My Vaccine Pass do not mix. In practice this might look like 20 people in the wharenui and 5 people in the wharekai including ringawera. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti  — marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside, particularly if gatherings are a mixture of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. People serving or handling kai must wear a face covering. Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. Marae can choose to require vaccine passes or not. You cannot change mid-gathering. If any member of the whānau pani, paepae, taumata or ringawera is not fully vaccinated, gathering restrictions will apply as if My Vaccine Pass is not being used. If a marae chooses to allow people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass to attend gatherings, marae must make sure:  Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 2:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can have a gathering at Red, like meeting friends, holding a wedding and attending church, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. Gatherings can go ahead at Red, with and without My Vaccine Pass requirements, but with different restrictions for each. Under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), household bubbles do not exist. Examples of gatherings that can go ahead at Red include: More information is available for funerals and tangihanga If a gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes workers. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. It includes children, but not staff. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. If a venue for a gathering chooses not to operate with vaccine pass requirements: They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. The limit includes children, but not staff. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 698 KB] Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, churches or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: You can serve food and drink at your gathering. If your gathering is at a hospitality venue, for example at a licensed restaurant, you need to follow the hospitality advice. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue, then you do not need to follow the hospitality advice. Private homes and places of worship do not have to follow hospitality rules. Hospitality at Red Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some circumstance where you must wear a face covering: We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 2:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, healthcare facilities and prisons at Red. You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), household bubbles do not exist. Examples include: Follow the advice for private gatherings. Private gatherings at Red You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. You must wear a face covering when visiting an aged care facility. Wear a face covering Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep their staff and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. You must wear a face covering when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Wear a face covering Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Health professionals can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Information for health professionals | health.govt.nz (external link) You can visit friends and whānau in prison with restrictions. Visitors to prisoners must have had at least one COVID-19 vaccine dose. Only people with a My Vaccine Pass will be allowed to visit. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You will need to show a printed copy of your My Vaccine Pass to prison staff on arrival. Prison sites may also have other public health measures in place, for example, you may be required to complete a health or temperature check. Check with the prison site before you visit. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some circumstance where you must wear a face covering: We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 9:29 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass and restrictions. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass and restrictions. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. If a hospitality venue chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes delivery drivers who enter to pick up orders. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people, based on 1-metre distancing, in a single defined space at the venue at any time. You will have to be seated and separated from other groups. Nightclubs can open, but customers must be seated and separated, which means dancing is not allowed. If you do not have a vaccine pass, you will be able to pickup takeaways if the venue has a contactless way to do this. You must scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. If a hospitality venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, it can open for contactless pick-up or delivery only. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Public-facing staff must wear face coverings. We encourage you to wear a face covering whenever you are outside your home. Wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 12:03 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can move house at Red. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Between 3 December 2021 and 17 January 2022 there are travel requirements if you are travelling into or out of Auckland. Follow the travel advice if this applies to you. Travel advice  Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) If the property owner or real estate agent chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Properties can have up to 100 people in a single defined space at any time based on 1-metre distancing. If the property owner or real estate agent chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 25 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the property at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Between 3 December 2021 and 17 January 2022 there are travel requirements if you are travelling out of Auckland. Follow the travel advice if this applies to you. Travel advice Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. We encourage you to wear a face when you are outside your home. Wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Real estate agencies can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Moving companies can find more information on business.govt.nz Advice for services | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 12:17 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. Shops and retail outlets can open at Red with restrictions. Close-proximity businesses can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red. Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 9:18 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass to access these places and services: Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. You must wear a face covering when accessing services for basic needs. Wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Health providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz. Advice for health providers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz (external link) Aged care providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz COVID-19: Aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Let customers and visitors know what My Vaccine Pass requirements you are operating under by displaying a My Vaccine Pass poster. Download My Vaccine Pass posters  Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 9:08 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Close-proximity businesses can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can visit a close-proximity business at Red, with My Vaccine Pass. Examples are: If a close-proximity business chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You should keep 1 metre apart from other customers. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Close-proximity business cannot open if they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. Staff must wear face coverings. Customers and clients are encouraged to wear a face covering. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Close-proximity businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity business advice | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 2:38 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Shops and retail outlets can open at Red with restrictions. Shops, including outdoor markets and banks, can open with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing. They can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this will not affect their capacity limits. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the shop. Everyone will always be able to access basic needs like food. Supermarkets and dairies are not allowed to prevent access based on your vaccination status. Access to basic needs at Red If you are at a close-proximity service within a retail setting, for example a make-up artist within a makeup store, then you must follow the rules for close-proximity businesses. The rest of the retail store only needs to follow the retail rules. Close-proximity businesses at Red Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. You must wear a face covering when shopping and going to a bank. Wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Retailers can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 2:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at any traffic light setting. Examples of trades and home services are: While they are inside your house it is strongly recommended you: Tradespeople are required to wear a face covering when inside people’s homes, and to keep a record of where they go. Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you: What to do if you are told to self-isolate Stay home if you are sick Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Tradespeople and businesses that provide home services can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 9:36 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements at some locations. You can attend sports events and play sport at Red, with My Vaccine Pass restrictions. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open at Red with restrictions. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 6:30 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Red with restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. You can travel for recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. There are temporary travel restrictions when travelling in and out of Auckland between 3 December 2021 and 17 January 2022. Follow the travel advice. Travel at Red Gyms and indoor recreation facilities, such as dance studios, yoga studios, health clubs, bowling alleys and ice skating rinks, can open if they choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. If the facility chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Gyms and indoor recreation facilities can have up to 100 people in a single defined space at any time based on 1-metre distancing. A facility cannot open if it chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. Public recreation facilities will follow the guidelines for public facilities. Public facilities at Red Indoor and outdoor swimming pools, saunas and steam rooms can open but with restrictions. If you want to go to a private facility that chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. They can have up to 100 people at a time, based on 1-metre distancing. Learn to swim classes can continue. Participants in these classes do not have to physically distance, but all other swimmers should keep a 1 metre apart from people they do not know. A private facility such as a swimming pool at a gym cannot open if it chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Red    Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead at Red with restrictions. If the business organising the class chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. There can be up to 100 people present, based on 1-metre distancing. If the business organising the class chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, the classes will be limited to 25 people, including children under the age of 12. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff. Parks, playgrounds, sports grounds and other outdoor recreation facilities such as skate parks can open to everyone. Private clubs such as golf or tennis clubs that are not members-only indoor exercise facilities, can choose to restrict their facilities to vaccinated people only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. Physical distancing is strongly encouraged. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an outdoor recreation facility, follow the rules for:  Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places when you must wear a face covering. We recommend you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters   Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 2:43 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can attend sports events and play sport at Red, with My Vaccine Pass restrictions. Outdoor community sport, like organised social touch rugby, can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. If a venue for outdoor community sport chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people, based on 1-metre distancing, in a defined space at the venue at any time. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: The capacity limit does not include staff at the venue. If a venue for outdoor community sport chooses not to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 25 people in a defined space at the venue at any time. For example, a game of cricket with 11 players each side can go ahead. A group of spectators up to 25 people can be watching from the sidelines. Spectators should remain 2 metres apart from players. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff at the venue. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Red  Organised indoor sport, for example at a stadium or indoor arena, can go ahead at Red with restrictions. If a venue for indoor sport chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people, based on 1-metre distancing, in a defined space at the venue at any time. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: If an indoor sports venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 25 people in a defined space at the venue at any time. For example, a game of netball can go ahead. A group of spectators up to 25 people can be watching from the sidelines. Spectators should remain 2 metres apart from players. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff at the venue. Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places when you must wear a face covering. We recommend you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home. When to wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters  Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 2:42 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. You can travel around New Zealand at Red, except for temporary Auckland boundary restrictions. Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions. Last updated: 1 December 2021 at 8:37 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions. Accommodation can open at Red. There are no capacity limits. They can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this will not affect their capacity limits. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation. This includes: If you are holding an event or a gathering at accommodation, follow the relevant advice: From 15 December 2021, everyone over the age of 12 years and 3 months must have a My Vaccine Pass to stay in a DOC hut or campsite. Visitors will be asked about their vaccination status when they book a DOC hut or campsite. Hut wardens may also carry out spot checks to make sure everyone has their My Vaccine Pass. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you can still use the DOC tracks and toilets, but you will not be allowed to stay overnight. Staying in a DOC hut or campsite | doc.govt.nz (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Accommodation services can provide food and drink. Customer-facing food and beverage services, other than room service, must follow the food and beverage rules. Hospitality at Red  We encourage you to wear a face covering whenever you are outside your home. Wear a face covering Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 10 December 2021 at 1:50 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can travel around New Zealand at Red, except for temporary Auckland restrictions. There are no restrictions on travel to Waiheke Island and Aotea (Great Barrier) Island. From 3 to 14 December 2021, you can only travel into and out of Auckland for permitted reasons.  Between 15 December 2021 and 17 January 2022, you can travel into and out of Auckland for any reason but you must follow some restrictions to leave Auckland. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to get tested or have a My Vaccine Pass to travel out of Auckland. You do not need to follow these restrictions if you are transiting through Auckland without stopping. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers leaving Auckland who: Find a community pharmacy or testing centre (external link) About free rapid antigen tests Port Waikato is included in the boundary with Auckland, and travellers across the boundary must follow the same rules. From 18 January 2022, there will be no restrictions on travel out of Auckland. When travelling into a different setting area, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. From 15 December 2021, Police checkpoints will be operating for northbound travellers entering Northland from Auckland. You will need to show your My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before crossing the boundary to enter Northland. The checkpoints will be on: The checkpoints will operate 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. More information on Police checkpoints in Northland (external link) Travel at Orange Some transport providers, such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators, may require you to show a vaccine pass or negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. The test must be taken within 72 hours before your journey. Testing for this purpose is not available at community testing centres. If you need a test to travel before 15 December 2021, you must arrange and pay for it yourself. Testing of unvaccinated people who wish to leave Auckland is free. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: Testing requirements for asymptomatic unvaccinated travellers You must wear a face covering: Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community.  While vaccination is highly effective, it is still possible to get COVID-19. You may get it while you are away from home, even if you are following the rules. You should prepare for what you may need to do if this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling You do not need to show a vaccine pass to use public transport, as these services are needed to access services for basic needs such as food and healthcare. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, at bus stops or train stations. You must wear a face covering: Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community.  You do not need to show a vaccine pass to use taxi and ride-share vehicles. You must wear a face covering. You are encouraged to scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of which service you used. Wear a face covering If you have been told to self-isolate because of COVID-19, you must not travel. What to do if you are told to self-isolate If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you must not travel. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits Transport operators can find more information: Advice for transport operators about COVID-19 Protection Framework | transport.govt.nz (external link) Advice for transport, freight and logistics | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 4:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Resources for businesses to help them operate safely at each of the traffic light settings. Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Having a QR code in a prominent place makes it easier for anyone visiting you to keep track of where they have been. Operators of busy places and events legally must have ways for everyone 12 years and over to record their visits at Red, Orange and Green. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Businesses can find advice on operating safely under each of the traffic light settings at business.govt.nz. COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Businesses can choose whether to require customers to have My Vaccine Passes as a condition of entry. If businesses choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, they must sight or verify customers' passes. Businesses can use the free NZ Pass Verifier app to check passes faster and easier. More information on NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) Use our COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what support may be available for you and your employees. COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for businesses | business.govt.nz (external link) Download and print posters to help keep your workplace safe — including posters to let your customers know if they need a My Vaccine Pass to enter. My Vaccine Pass posters Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 12:07 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, or if you are an employee. Last updated: 8 October 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Before you start, you will need your: You should only use the official NZ COVID-19 QR code poster issued by the Ministry of Health. This is so that visitors know that scanning the QR code links to NZ COVID Tracer app, and is for contact tracing purposes. When you receive your QR code poster you should: You can reprint your QR code posters, update and manage the contact details registered to your poster and archive any posters you no longer need online. Manage and reprint your QR code poster (external link) (external link) We encourage you to check your contact details are up to date. This will help contact tracers to quickly notify you if someone who tests positive for COVID-19 has been to your premises, or if your business is identified as a location of interest. When someone tests positive for COVID-19, contact tracers need to know where they have been while they were infectious. If a person who tests positive for COVID-19 has visited your business, contact tracers need to get in touch with you and notify people who were there at the same time. The faster that this can happen, the faster that contacts can isolate and get tested, and the more likely it is that we can stop the spread of COVID-19. If they scanned in, everything can go faster. Contact tracers can use the contact details you included when you signed up for your QR code poster to get in touch with you quickly, and let you know what to do next. If the person who tested positive did not scan in, contact tracers use the location name on your poster to try and get in touch with you, and quickly alert anyone who scanned in at the time the case was there. If it is hard to find the right location details, this takes longer – and sometimes we cannot find them at all. If you have multiple posters at your business with different details, we might not notify everyone who scanned in. Last updated: 1 December 2021 at 5:57 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Having a QR code in a prominent place makes it easier for anyone visiting you to keep track of where they have been. You must display your QR code in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You must have additional QR codes available to scan in other places around your business — for example, at counters where people go up to pay, at the reception desk or in areas where customers and visitors regularly walk past. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. Your poster also needs to be in good condition so it is easy to scan for your customers and visitors.  You need a separate poster for each unique location. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they have been. This includes buses, trains, planes, ferries and ride-share vehicles. Public transport services must display additional copies of QR codes in prominent places — such as windows to make it easier and more accessible for passengers to scan in. Public transport services that have less than 5 seats, taxis and ride-share vehicles only need to display one QR code. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You must display a QR code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. If you are organising an event or gathering, you can choose to have a QR code poster. Advice on record keeping and contact tracing Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 6:20 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Help protect Aotearoa by encouraging staff and visitors to scan in every time they visit your business. Record keeping involves collecting the details of all workers, customers, and visitors who visit your workplace or location. If there is a case of COVID-19 in the community, public health officials and contact tracers will use this information to identify people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. When businesses and event organisers keep records of who was at their workplace or location, it makes contact tracing faster and more efficient. Good record keeping and fast contact tracing will help stop the spread of COVID-19, and protect our businesses, communities and each other. Many businesses and locations are now required to make sure people can easily keep a record of when they visit. This is a requirement at Red, Orange and Green. If you are the person in charge of a business, location or event, you legally must: You legally must have more than one way for people to record their visit, especially for people who are not able to scan QR codes. Your system for recording customers and visitors can include: You still need to continue displaying your QR code poster even if you are not required to collect customer records. More information and advice on record keeping | business.govt.nz (external link)  Certain businesses and event organisers legally must have a way for customers and visitors to record that they have entered their premises or attended a gathering or event. You must have ways to record a visit if you are: At an event, for example a wedding or tangihanga, either the venue owner or operator, or the organiser/hirer of the venue can be the person who is responsible for making sure there are ways for people to record their visit. We still encourage you to keep contact tracing records and promote the use of the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information about the NZ COVID Tracer app Contact records are personal information. They need to be collected, used, stored, disclosed, and disposed of safely and securely in accordance with the Privacy Act 2020. The most secure way for customers and visitors to record their details is by scanning the NZ COVID Tracer app. If people cannot use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you need to make sure that any alternative method you use for contact tracing protects people’s privacy, and that you only use the information they provide for contact tracing purposes. Alternative recording systems require more care to keep them safe and secure. Do not leave paper-based records out in the open where others can see the information. This is the leading cause of COVID-19-related privacy breaches. The Office of the Privacy Commissioner's website has practical guidance that will help you protect people's privacy when using alternative contact recording methods. Use a simple privacy statement alongside your alternative record keeping system to let people know why the information is needed and how long you need it for. Guidance on mandatory record keeping for contact tracing | privacy.org.nz (external link) There are several ways you can make record keeping easier for you and your workers, customers and visitors. If someone refuses to or is unable to scan in, you are not expected to force someone to provide their details, or to refuse them entry. Remember, some people may have their own way of keeping track of where they have been. It is up to you to decide what is appropriate for your premises and the wellbeing of your staff and other customers. Download and print record keeping slips, stickers and a box template. You can also print posters to remind staff, customers and visitors to scan in. Resources If you do not follow these record keeping requirements, you will be fined an infringement fee of $300 or a court-imposed fine of up to $1,000. Failing to display a QR code will continue to be an infringement offence carrying an infringement fee of $300 or court imposed fine of up to $1,000. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 6:20 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Search or browse for your local traffic light setting. The Auckland / Port Waikato boundary remains in place until 15 December. You can only cross the boundary for permitted reasons. From 11:59pm on Thursday, 30 December, the following regions will move to Orange: Auckland, Taupō and Rotorua Lakes Districts, Kawerau, Whakatane, Ōpōtiki Districts, Gisborne District, Wairoa District, and Rangitikei, Whanganui and Ruapehu Districts. Northland will remain at Red. The traffic light map will be updated from 11:59pm from 30 December 2021. The next review will be in the week of 17 January 2022. What you need to do under each traffic light setting Black lines indicate the boundary around Auckland, which includes Port Waikato. Auckland is now at Red. Port Waikato is now at Orange. Travel across the Auckland boundary, which includes Port Waikato, remains restricted in both directions. You can only cross the boundary for permitted reasons. Between 15 December 2021 and 17 January 2022, you can travel out of or into Auckland for any reason. You must follow some restrictions: Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner uses the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures to help you plan your journey. Use Journey Planner (external link) Journey Planner also provides updates on the latest traffic information at Alert Level 3 checkpoints. Find out the latest traffic information at the checkpoints (external link) Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 4:20 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. What you need to know Information about crossing the boundary around Auckland from 3 December to 14 December 2021. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. From 15 December, you will need your My Vaccine Pass to travel into or out of Auckland. You can travel around New Zealand at Red, except for temporary Auckland restrictions from 3 December 2021. You travel anywhere for any reason at Orange, but you must wear a face covering in some places. You can travel anywhere at Green, but you must wear a face covering on flights. We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster Last updated: 6 December 2021 at 12:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Entry to New Zealand is strictly controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. The Government requires non-New Zealand citizens to meet COVID-19 vaccine requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. Travel from 'very high risk' countries to New Zealand is currently restricted. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: Many countries require travellers to self-isolate on arrival, show proof of vaccination or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except the Cook Islands. For the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders who are overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link)  You may need proof of vaccination to travel overseas. Anyone 12 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can now request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Requesting your certificate takes just 1 to 2 minutes and will be emailed to you within 24 hours. The quickest way to get your pass is through your My Covid Record, but if you cannot access this service you can call 0800 222 478 — have your NHI number ready. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with Australia and the Cook Islands.  Some countries require travellers to have a negative COVID-19 test result before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from MIQ. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 6:45 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. From January 2022, fully vaccinated New Zealanders can begin travelling to New Zealand without entering MIQ. Here is our 3-step plan: If you are not entering MIQ, you will have to meet some requirements, for example self-isolation. Requirements for those not entering MIQ (external link) Check who can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) We have updated the list of very high risk countries: Travel restrictions from very high risk countries Almost all travellers are legally required to have a voucher confirming their place in MIQ before boarding their flight. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. If you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to book your voucher and complete your stay in our MIQ facilities. By staying in MIQ, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 180,000 people have completed their MIQ stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in an MIQ facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter MIQ and so you do not need a voucher. Get your voucher by entering the virtual lobby up to 1 hour before room release. Everyone in the lobby has an equal chance of securing a room. Once the room release starts, everyone in the lobby will be moved into a queue. Your place in the queue is random. This means you do not need to keep refreshing your web browser, and you do not need to be the fastest to secure a room. MIQ will announce room releases at least 24 to 48 hours before they become available. How to get your voucher| miq.govt.nz (external link) About the virtual lobby | miq.govt.nz (external link) Get your voucher (external link) You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) The Government recovers some of the costs for MIQ. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for MIQ, and who needs to pay | miq.govt.nz (external link) Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your facility to complete the rest of your stay. You will be tested for COVID-19 again around day 3 and day 5/6 of your stay. You can leave MIQ after 7 full days, if your test results are negative. You will isolate at home for around 3 days. You will have to get a PCR test on day 9, and stay at home until you have a negative result.  When you arrive in New Zealand you are checked for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: Both types of facilities are located within hotels. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Exemptions from managed isolation are approved in very few circumstances. Applications for exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website has information about exemptions, including: Apply for an exemption from staying in MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) From 22 November 2021, 300 places a month in MIQ will be allocated for critical health and disability workers entering New Zealand for employment in a critical health and disability role. Visit the Ministry of Health website for more on eligibility criteria and how to apply. Dedicated MIQ places for critical health and disability workers | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:38 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Most travellers must have a negative pre-departure test result and approved documentation to enter New Zealand. You still need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You are responsible for checking your chosen testing provider can provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Tests from free community testing stations may not be acceptable for travel clearance, so check before your test. You need to have both your COVID-19 test sample taken and your result returned within 72 hours of the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. The Government has been monitoring overseas developments and is concerned about high rates of infection and new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. Pre-departure tests reduce the risk of infected travellers on international flights infecting other travellers. Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. The Director-General of Health has confirmed the following types of test are acceptable for all countries — except Australia and very high risk countries: Travellers from Australia are required to get PCR or RT-PCR pre-departure tests. Travellers from very high risk countries must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test from an accredited laboratory. Check which countries are very high risk All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. You are responsible for the costs associated with your test.    You can get tested at a range of places. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Make sure you check your chosen testing provider will provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. You are responsible for meeting any costs associated with your test. All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. You must make sure that the testing provider you choose can provide your test results with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Free community testing stations often do not provide all the information required for travel clearance, so check before having your pre-departure test. If your pre-departure documentation does not contain the required information, or is not in the required format, you may be prevented from boarding your plane. The New Zealand Government requires that all pre-departure tests contain the following information for travel clearance: Get information about pre-departure testing in other languages and alternate formats. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:32 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Find information about proof of vaccination to travel from New Zealand: International Travel Vaccination Certificates — to leave New Zealand Non-New Zealand citizens must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. You will need to tell managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) your vaccination status when you book your voucher. You must still have the right to enter New Zealand. The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must still meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. You do not need to be vaccinated before travelling to New Zealand. This means that you need to: A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand. There are 28 vaccines that are approved for entry into New Zealand. Note: they are only approved to enter New Zealand — only some vaccines are approved for use when you are in New Zealand. You do not need to have evidence you have met COVID-19 vaccination requirements if you: You do not need to apply for an exemption. Foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand are not exempt from the requirements — they must carry evidence of being vaccinated on arrival in New Zealand. If you cannot be vaccinated for some reason, you may be able to apply for an exemption. Apply for an exemption if you have not had time to meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before your travel date, you have a voucher for MIQ, and you are travelling with a New Zealand citizen who is your: Apply for an exemption if you cannot easily get vaccinations in the country that you have spent the previous 6 months before your journey to New Zealand. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can be given an exemption. Apply for an exemption (external link) If you are not a New Zealand citizen and you are required to be fully vaccinated, you need to provide evidence that: You may be asked to provide evidence of your vaccination or exemption to your airline when you check in for your travel to New Zealand. You also need to provide this evidence to NZ Customs. You need a digital vaccine passport or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: Your evidence must confirm your last dose was at least 14 days before departure for New Zealand. You must have an electronic or paper medical certificate from a medical practitioner that says you cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. You must have an electronic or paper copy of the exemption letter from the Director-General of Health. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to: Some people are exempt from these requirements. Reasons you can enter New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Secure your place in MIQ Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 2:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Find the latest information about travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Information about travelling between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can travel from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility (MIQ). You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 5:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Find out about travelling quarantine-free between New Zealand and the Cook Islands. You may be interested in New Zealand Cook Islands Paused From New Zealand to Cook Islands: Paused Cook Islands New Zealand Continues From Cook Islands to New Zealand: Continues There are no locations of interest in the Cook Islands. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand is paused. The Cook Islands Government has indicated that travel will resume from 14 January 2022. Please check Cook Islands COVID-19 Response for updates. Cook Islands COVID-19 Response | covid19.gov.ck All travellers should follow local Cook Islands health guidelines . We also strongly encourage all travellers in the Cook Islands to register on the www.safetravel.govt.nz and monitor this website for further updates. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:36 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Cook Islands Government has announced that its borders will reopen, allowing travel from New Zealand to resume from 14 January 2022. You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. You must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. You can travel to the outer islands after you arrive in Rarotonga. You do not need to self-isolate in Rarotonga before you continue your journey to the outer islands. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only.  The Cook Islands border will reopen on 14 January 2022. To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight after then, you must meet the following criteria: Anyone can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for a stay of up to 31 days. The passport you hold does not matter. You must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. New Zealand and Australian passport holders need at least 7 days remaining on their passports from the date they leave the Cook Islands. All other passport holders need at least 6 months remaining. It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Cook Islands Ministry of Health travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart from New Zealand. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete our own Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you fly back to New Zealand. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Wear a face covering on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in the Cook islands. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. While you are in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response | gov.ck (external link) If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. Make sure you participate in the Cook Islands system to track people’s movements. Doing your part means you are part of the national effort to keep the Cook Islands COVID-19 free: When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at some locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Scan your QR Card at all locations with a ‘CookSafe Tag In Here’ sign. To scan in, hold your card in front of the scanning area of the device. The screen will appear green when you have successfully scanned in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card | cookislands.travel (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you are in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been and who you have seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. Any Bluetooth codes (or 'keys') that are sent or collected from your phone using 1 app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you are in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. More about CookSafe+ app | health.gov.ck (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system | covid19.gov.ck (external link) You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You will need to meet any costs, and g overnment assistance is unlikely to be available. Your airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. You may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. You may need to pay for your stay. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. If you are travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Last updated: 19 November 2021 at 12:16 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Cook Islands Government has announced that its borders will reopen, allowing travel from New Zealand to resume from 14 January 2022. New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back on a scheduled flight. You cannot fly if you have been at a location of interest in New Zealand or if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Before you travel: Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. Travel is restricted across the Auckland boundary. However, you can travel through New Zealand to get home. You must do the following: Life at Red You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Travellers must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you leave the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. You must be fully vaccinated if you are not a New Zealand citizen. Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens, and so do not need to show proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Wear a face covering on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in New Zealand. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. You will see health professionals stationed around the airport, who will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering in many public places in New Zealand. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic light settings: Traffic lights You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. How to travel back to the Cook Islands Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:38 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You can travel one-way from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. You are responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to your country is delayed. Travellers from Samoa, Tonga, Vanuatu and Tokelau can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Check official websites for information about Pacific Island government departure requirements. People who are eligible to enter New Zealand from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu are: List of critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Requirements for Australian citizens and permanent residents | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand’s transit requirements remain the same. Transit passengers | immigration.govt.nz (external link) All travellers from Tonga, regardless of citizenship, are also required to register and be approved by the Government of Tonga before travelling to New Zealand. Register for travel to New Zealand (external link) If you travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Recognised Seasonal Employer (RSE) workers are currently required to have at least 1 dose, and will be required to be fully vaccinated from 1 January 2022. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Due to the low risk in these countries, you do not need to provide a negative test before departing for New Zealand. All travellers must complete a travel declaration form, Nau Mai Rā, for New Zealand's Ministry of Health. Complete Nau Mai Rā (external link) When you arrive in New Zealand, you should be aware of any restrictions on domestic travel and activities. What to do at the traffic light settings Travel is restricted across the Auckland boundary. However, you can travel through New Zealand to get home. You must do the following: Personal travel across Auckland boundary Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at the different traffic light settings: Traffic lights If you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Download an A6 fact sheet about quarantine-free travel to New Zealand in English and other languages: Last updated: 1 December 2021 at 5:07 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Information in Niuean about quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand. Fenoga nakai nofo puipui mai Niue ki Niu Silani | Quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand Travel across the Auckland boundary is restricted. However, you can travel through New Zealand to get home. You must do the following: Personal travel across the Auckland boundary You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. If you are travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) If you are in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine free, you must meet the following conditions: You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face covering at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility for 14 days. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. If you’re travelling to New Zealand quarantine free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic lights: Traffic lights If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:38 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand. From 11:59pm (NZT) on Sunday 16 January 2022: fully vaccinated New Zealanders and other eligible travellers can travel to New Zealand from Australia without staying in MIQ. Reconnecting New Zealand — the next steps (external link) We will update this page when more information is available. On 17 September 2021, the Government further suspended quarantine-free travel from Australia. This is due to the current Delta outbreaks. From 11:59pm on Sunday 16 January 2022: fully vaccinated New Zealanders and other eligible travellers can travel to New Zealand from Australia without staying in MIQ. The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to almost all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. If you want to travel from Australia, you must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Check now to see if you can travel. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You need to: Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Costs for MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccinations required for non-New Zealand citizens (external link) If you want to travel to New Zealand, you need to book your MIQ voucher when they are available. MIQ has introduced a virtual lobby for all room releases. Visit the MIQ website to find out how to participate in the virtual lobby booking system. Get your voucher through the virtual lobby (external link) You can travel quarantine-free from anywhere in New Zealand to Australia. This began on 1 November 2021. To travel to Australia, you must: Individual states or territories may not accept quarantine-free travellers from New Zealand. They may also have their own rules or guidance for travelling there. Check with the state government website for what you need to do. You should also check if flights are available, as they may be limited. Information for travellers by state or territory | australia.gov.au (external link) New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link)  If you are in Australia and have not been able to return home, we encourage you to: Register to get the latest travel advice for Australia | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Sign up for email notifications for travel with Australia (external link) If you need information about returning home, you can call the contact centre for advice: You can call between 8am to 10pm (NZT), 7 days a week. It is your responsibility to manage your costs for travel disruption. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Consular staff in New Zealand and at our consular offices in Australia cannot arrange a space in MIQ or a flight to New Zealand for you. Get emergency consular help by calling: Emergency consular help is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:36 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. You may have been asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you arrived in New Zealand from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021. Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021 We carried out a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected information to help inform government policy. It did not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) led the survey in partnership with 10 other government agencies, including the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Stats NZ, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Development, Te Tūāpapa Kura Kāinga, Ministry of Education, Ministry for Primary Industries, Te Puni Kōkiri, Treasury and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd was contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. You were invited to do the survey if you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 and you were 18 years or over. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd were given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. Your completion of the survey was voluntary. The survey took about 12 minutes to complete, and participants could do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. This survey is now closed and no further respondents will be contacted to participate. Your answers have been combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agreed to take part in further research, your contact details were sent to the research team at MBIE. This information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz MBIE has published the final results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Results from the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals: Findings for arrivals between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 [PDF, 917 KB]  The survey is now complete and this is the final reporting of high-level data for all arrivals during the survey period. Further Māori-focused results will be available in November 2021. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:41 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who needs an NZeTA or transit visa, and who can transit New Zealand without one. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can transit New Zealand to or from Australia. Flight availability may be limited — check with your airline if flights are available. You must meet all requirements for transiting New Zealand. Check what you need to do | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must also meet all requirements for your final destination. These may include valid visas to enter the country, negative pre-departure test results and proof of vaccination. Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: What to do if you are staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you need to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 before flying to New Zealand. If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must be fully vaccinated. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The Government has created a ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil, Fiji, India, Indonesia and Pakistan are no longer designated as very high risk. Travellers to New Zealand from very high risk countries are temporarily restricted to: Dependent children are children under 18 years old. Partners of New Zealand citizens can be a spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner. If you are a non-New Zealand citizen, you must hold a valid visa to enter New Zealand. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ (external link) All other travellers, including people holding residence class visas, must spend at least 14 days outside of very high risk countries before flying to New Zealand. You can transit through a very high risk country without having to spend 14 days outside the country before you travel to New Zealand. There is no limit on the amount of time you may spend transiting through a very high risk country, but you must stay airside. This means you will stay at the airport and not enter the country. Travellers from Papua New Guinea must enter 7 days of MIQ, followed by at least 3 days of self-isolation while waiting for the results of a day 9 test. Travellers from all other very high risk countries must enter 14 days of MIQ. All travellers from very high risk countries must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test result from a government-approved laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes lists of laboratories in very high risk countries that are approved to conduct COVID-19 tests. Lists of approved laboratories (external link)  The Director-General of Health may grant exemptions for humanitarian reasons. You can find out more about the exemptions process at the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an exemption (external link) The Government considers the following factors, among others, when deciding to designate a country as very high risk: Resurgence of COVID-19 is happening in a number of countries, and there are further waves of infections in many countries as new variants of the COVID-19 virus arise. This means New Zealand expects to see more returnees with COVID-19 from these areas. This increase in cases will place pressure on our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) systems and increase the risk of a community outbreak. This is particularly important as countries deal with the Delta variant of COVID-19. The New Zealand Government has responded by creating a very high risk country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The Government will review this decision regularly. If you are a New Zealander in a very high risk country, make sure you register your travel and contact details with SafeTravel. Register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the country you're in (external link) In the 14 days before leaving there are things you can do to help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it to New Zealand with you: Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 3:43 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. From January 2022, fully vaccinated New Zealanders can begin travelling to New Zealand without entering MIQ. Here is our 3-step plan: If you are not entering MIQ, you will have to meet some requirements, for example self-isolation. Requirements for those not entering MIQ (external link) Check who can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) We have updated the list of very high risk countries: Travel restrictions from very high risk countries The New Zealand borders are closed to many travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Anyone arriving in New Zealand by air or sea must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Check your eligibility to travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Travel from very high risk countries is currently restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Travel restrictions for very high risk countries New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Most people must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get pre-departure tests. Requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before flying to New Zealand. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand It is important that people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you are returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete a stay in MIQ, unless you are arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. Quarantine-free travel RSE workers from Vanuatu, Samoa and Tonga can begin entering New Zealand under one-way quarantine-free travel. Workers arriving under the scheme must: Employers must provide facilities for the workers to self-isolate in. Workers must also get their second COVID-19 vaccine dose after they arrive, if they do not have it already. Recognised Seasonal Employer (RSE) scheme | immigration.govt.nz (external link) International transit through New Zealand If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: More help from SafeTravel (external link) Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 12:33 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. What travel is permitted across the Auckland boundary. Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders and develop new ways for people to travel to and from Aotearoa New Zealand. This is a new framework for travel that will involve gradually shifting our border settings from where New Zealand is now, with travel based on country-to-country arrangements, to a risk-based travel approach based on individual travellers. It will take into account a number of factors, including vaccine status. Read more about the next steps [PDF, 122 KB] The Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World forum brought together experts to discuss the next steps in our reconnection strategy. The forum featured a presentation from Sir David Skegg, a panel discussion with experts and a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern. The event was held on Thursday 12 August 2021. Watch the Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World forum Self-isolation is part of the Government’s plan for re-opening borders and allowing more people to visit and return home to New Zealand without the requirement to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). A self-isolation pilot over October and December 2021 will test some of the systems and processes that would be needed to roll out self-isolation more widely. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) will administer the pilot. The traveller health declaration system will collect information from travellers arriving in New Zealand. In future, New Zealand will assess the health risk of each traveller depending on their vaccination status, test results and where they have travelled. This information will be used to help facilitate the traveller on arrival to New Zealand, for example whether they need to go into a MIQ facility, or be eligible for other isolation options and testing requirements. In order to confirm people’s vaccination status, this system will be able to validate the vaccination certificate and show it is authentic and can be trusted. The complexity of digital and operational systems that the traveller health declaration system needs means it will be developed in stages with security and simplicity for users being key to the solution. The first version will be available in Quarter1 2022. The New Zealand Customs Service will admin ister the project. Vaccination status and verification will be an important part of supporting New Zealanders to travel internationally. Anyone 12 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can now request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Requesting your certificate takes just 1 to 2 minutes and will be emailed to you within 24 hours.  The quickest way to get your pass is through your My Covid Record, but if you cannot access this service you can call 0800 222 478 — have your NHI number ready. How to use My Covid Record How to use My Covid Record to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 260 KB] Sign in to My Covid Record (external link) Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:41 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The forum started with a presentation from Sir David Skegg, with an overview of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group’s advice on reconnecting New Zealand. It was followed by a discussion MC’d by the Prime Minister’s Chief Science Advisor, Dame Juliet Gerrard. The experts bring a range of backgrounds and perspectives to a discussion about vaccination, safe borders, safe travel and public health habits. The event also featured a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and opening remarks from Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:41 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. Information about travelling across the Auckland boundary from 3 December 2021. Auckland is in Red settings in the traffic lights. However, you can only travel across the Auckland boundary for permitted reasons until 11:59pm on 14 December 2021. From 15 December, you can travel for any reason, but there will be some restrictions when leaving Auckland. Personal travel across the Auckland boundary is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. Business and work travel across the Auckland boundary is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 3:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. From Friday 3 December 2021, Auckland is in Red settings. This applies to travel within Auckland. There are no restrictions on travelling to Waiheke Island and Aotea (Great Barrier) Island. Travel at Red From Friday 3 December, you can still only travel across the Auckland boundary for permitted reasons. Note Port Waikato is included in the boundary with Auckland. From 15 December 2021, the boundary around Auckland and Port Waikato will ease. Between 15 December 2021 and 17 January 2022, you can travel out of or into Auckland for any reason. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to meet these requirements to travel out of Auckland. You do not need to follow these requirements if you are transiting through Auckland without stopping. Get your My Vaccine Pass From 18 January 2022, there will be no restrictions on travel out of Auckland. Business or work travel across the Auckland boundary is strictly limited. The boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the boundary if that travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. The following reasons for business or work travel are permitted. If your business travel across the boundary is permitted, you are already allowed to cross the boundary. You do not need to apply for an exemption to travel. Your employer needs to make sure: You should have evidence to travel across the boundary. The Business Travel Document can be used as evidence of your right to travel across the boundary. Having one makes crossing the boundary quicker and easier. Get your Business Travel Document (external link) Other evidence of your purpose of travel is also acceptable, for example, freight or delivery vehicles could provide delivery dockets. Find examples of evidence in the permitted travel section on this page. You should also have a form of photo ID. Every person travelling should carry evidence — you may not be able to cross the boundary if you do not have it. Make sure you have printed copies of your evidence, or electronic copies on your device. You cannot use Business Travel Documents from previous Alert Level lockdowns, for example from February 2021. You must register for new ones. Business Travel Documents will still be used from 3 December 2021 to 14 December 2021. From 15 December 2021, Business Travel Documents will no longer be used once the Auckland boundary opens. You will be able to travel in or out of Auckland for any reason. There will be some restrictions: Travel at Red Most workers crossing the boundary must now carry evidence of a COVID-19 test. Testing for workers crossing the Auckland boundary If your reason for travelling is not permitted but you think you have an essential reason to travel for work, you can apply for an exemption. Requests will need to meet criteria. Nominate an authorised person who will apply on behalf of the business. They should understand the business travel operations, like who needs to travel, which boundaries they need to cross and why their travel is essential. Employees cannot register. The authorised person needs to apply for them. Note that exemption applications will not be processed until a Health Order is in place. Apply for an exemption to cross the boundary (external link) If you want to cross the boundary for personal reasons, you will need to check if your reason for travelling is permitted. Personal travel across the Auckland boundary Last updated: 9 December 2021 at 11:34 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. From Friday 3 December 2021, Auckland is in Red settings. This applies to travel within Auckland. There are no restrictions on travelling to Waiheke Island and Aotea (Great Barrier) Island. Travel at Red From Friday 3 December, you can still only travel across the Auckland boundary for permitted reasons. Note Port Waikato is included in the boundary with Auckland. From 15 December 2021, the boundary around Auckland and Port Waikato will ease. Between 15 December 2021 and 17 January 2022, you can travel out of or into Auckland for any reason. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to meet these requirements to travel out of Auckland. You do not need to follow these requirements if you are transiting through Auckland without stopping. Get your My Vaccine Pass From 18 January 2022, there will be no restrictions on travel out of Auckland. Personal travel across the Auckland boundary is strictly limited to minimise the spread of the virus. You can only travel across the boundary for permitted reasons. Find the Auckland boundary — traffic light map If your reason to travel is permitted, you can travel across the Auckland boundary in either direction. If your reason is not permitted, you cannot cross the boundary. You need to carry evidence with you. You may also need evidence of a COVID-19 test. Check the list of permitted travel. It will tell you if and when you need to get tested, and what evidence you need. Check if your travel is permitted There are no restrictions on travelling to Waiheke Island and Aotea (Great Barrier) Island. Check if your reason for travel is permitted: Check if your travel is permitted If your personal travel across the boundary is permitted, you are already allowed to cross the boundary. Do not apply for an exemption to travel, because you do not need one. You just need to make sure you have acceptable evidence to travel. If you are making a return trip, you will also need to carry evidence of where you live. Whether you are driving or flying across the boundary, you will be asked to show you have evidence to travel. At the airport and the road checkpoint, have your evidence ready as officials may ask to see it at any time. Find examples of acceptable evidence in the list of permitted travel. You must also have a form of photo ID. If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you need to apply for an exemption. Before applying for an exemption, you must be sure that: However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstance s on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. Apply for an individual exemption for personal travel (external link) If you want to cross the boundary for business or work reasons, you or your employer need to check if your reason for travelling is permitted. Business travel across the Auckland boundary Last updated: 13 December 2021 at 9:54 am Languages and resources Contact and support
My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. From Friday 3 December, when we move to the traffic light system, you may need My Vaccine Pass to enter venues and events. Get your My Vaccine Pass Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. The permitted reasons for personal travel across the Auckland boundary are listed on this page. Unless it says otherwise, you can travel across the boundary in either direction. If your reason for travel is listed on this page then you are already allowed to cross the boundary — you do not need to apply for an exemption. You just need to check whether you need a COVID-19 test, and what evidence you need to carry. What to do if your travel is permitted If your travel is not permitted — but you believe you need to cross the boundary — then you can apply for an exemption. How to apply for a personal travel exemption    If you are looking for information about caring for children, check: Looking after others        You can travel across the Auckland boundary for work if that travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Permitted business travel across the Auckland boundary Last updated: 3 December 2021 at 10:16 am Languages and resources Contact and support