Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Keeping up to date with your vaccinations is important, even if you have already had COVID-19. What you need to know Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Information about what to do if you are planning to travel to New Zealand. Find out how to get an updated My Vaccine Pass, your My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find information about the history of the COVID-19 Alert System, Independent Advisory Groups, legislation and key documents. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 independent advisory groups. There is also a community panel to represent diverse views. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 Protection Framework sets out rules for different traffic light settings. The framework aims to manage life with Omicron and reduce the impact of outbreaks. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Unite against COVID-19 has evolved to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey and response to COVID-19. Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. It is evolving to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey based on the concept of "He waka eke noa — we are all in this together." COVID-19 was a storm that had been raging across the world and eventually made its way to Aotearoa. This pūrorohū threatened our lifestyle, businesses and our very lives. We knew the only way we could survive was to shelter and wait for it to pass. So, we dropped anchor and took shelter, and focused on keeping people safe. Each time it threatened us we would do this and wait for it to pass. But, over time it has become apparent to us all that our weather has changed and this storm is now part of our new reality. Our strength has always been in our sail. Our raranga is made strong by the threads working together. Over the past year we have added new threads to our raranga that have further strengthened our sail, so that we can now continue our journey. We can seek out new horizons with the confidence of knowing that if we hit some bad weather again, our navigation skills and the strength of our sail will carry us through to calmer waters. Working collaboratively with Māori designers and communication experts, our new sail motif reflects the journey we are on and is now woven through our designs and advertising. From this, a distinctive Aotearoa feel flows through our elements. Our colour palette is influenced by the colours of the kererū. The taonga pūoro you now hear woven into the sting at the start of our audio advertisements represent the contemporary sounds of Aotearoa. These are New Zealand's sounds and voices. Taonga pūoro are considered an important medicine in healing. They are used as rongoā (medicine) for both mental health and physical ailments. Our taonga pūoro is recorded by musician Reti Hedley, Ngā Puhi, Ngāti Tūwharetoa. Our yellow stripes and Alert Level campaign helped us shelter from the stormy weather, while reassuring New Zealanders we could get through together. Aotearoa is still navigating its journey with COVID-19, but, together we can continue to trust in the strength of our sail. Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 11:37 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community.  At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2.  The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm.  Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights)  A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: Last updated: 29 June 2022 at 2:06 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 independent advisory groups. There is also a community panel to represent diverse views. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by a diverse range of perspectives, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet set up the Community Panel. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The group provides advice to the Minister for COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. This can include: The aim is to give the Minister assurance that learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] Documents from COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group are proactively released to the public. Proactive releases One of the recommendations from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group's review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak was for all recommendations from that review and from previous reports to be actively monitored, with regular progress reports. Read the progress reports Last updated: 12 July 2022 Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The panel provides insights across the COVID-19 system direct from communities. Panel members bring lived experiences and deep community ties to: They represent communities such as rural, youth/aged, disabled, LGBTQ+, Māori, Pacific and other ethnic groups. Their expertise helps shape the medium- and long-term COVID-19 strategy. Members were chosen in consultation with other government agencies to ensure strong cross-agency collaboration. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] When information is proactively released about the Community Panel, it will be available on this page. Last updated: 1 July 2022 at 4:49 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The group provides independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. Documents from Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group are proactively released to the public. View proactive releases Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Last updated: 3 June 2022 at 10:12 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. Make a direct request for official information The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. This includes papers, minutes, Official Information Act requests (OIAs) and key advice. These documents are proactively released in keeping with the Official Information Act 1982. A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Last updated: 12 July 2022 at 8:19 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Alert Level Orders are published on the New Zealand Legislation website | New Zealand Legislation (external link) Last updated: 5 August 2022 at 4:40 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 25 July 2022 at 10:55 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:30 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:35 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:37 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 22 June 2022 at 4:01 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:42 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:43 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Reports tracking the progress made on recommendations to improve New Zealand’s COVID-19 response system. See progress reports Last updated: 11 July 2022 at 12:53 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. One of the recommendations from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group's review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak was for all recommendations from that review and from previous reports to be actively monitored, with regular progress reports. The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group undertook a stocktake of reviews and coordinated a system view of the recommendations. The COVID-19 Group monitors progress against recommended improvements. These progress reports intend to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 response system learns and adapts over time.     Recommendations have been grouped into 10 themes to report on the system trends: Last updated: 12 July 2022 Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 2:47 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Our website privacy statement, terms of use, contact details if you would like advice or have feedback, and how to access archives of our website. How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. Last updated: 23 July 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find contact information for the COVID-19 group at the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. I am looking for...  You can find guidance and submit an Official Information Request to the COVID-19 Group on the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet website: How to make an Official Information Act request (external link) Find information and advice translated into different languages: Translations Find information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs: Alternate formats Immigration New Zealand can answer questions about travel eligibility and visa categories. Contact Immigration NZ | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link)  If you run or own a business, you can find information on the business.govt website: COVID-19: Information for businesses (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) (external link) Contact us | business.govt.nz (external link) We have a selection of posters available for in the traffic light settings available on this website. You can also get your QR code poster. Download posters Get your QR code poster (external link) All our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, can be viewed and download through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email: covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz You will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can send a query through an online form on the Employment website or call them. Online form | employment.govt.nz (external link) Call: 0800 20 90 20 Call 111 immediately. If you have COVID-19, tell them when you ring. You need to contact your care co-ordinator or call Healthline. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19response@health.govt.nz  There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. How to get your My Vaccine Pass There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact MIQ. You can find contact details on their website. Contact us | miq.govt.nz (external link) If you have a health concern after your vaccination, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor. You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19vaccine@health.govt.nz  Visit the Work and Income website for urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. Work and Income website (external link) (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) In MyMSD you can check your payments, tell MSD about changes and apply for a benefit or NZ Super: Use MyMSD (external link) You can also use the COVID-19 financial support tool on this website to see what support is available to you. Use the financial support tool If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Report a breach online (external link) Face masks If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements How to report false or misleading information that you see can be found on this website. Report false or misleading information Contact the COVID-19 media team: Email: covid19media@dpmc.govt.nz The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz (external link) Businesses and workplaces are no longer required to display a QR code poster, but can choose to do so. There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Get your QR code poster (external link) If you have questions or feedback about the app, QR code posters or any problems using them, you will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Call 0800 800 606 You must enable JavaScript to submit this form Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. If you are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in alternate formats, including: Alternate formats Many government agencies have language support available if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages. Translations If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach You can contact the COVID-19 Group by using our online form above or sending a letter to us. If you are sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Postal address: COVID-19 Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand Last updated: 4 August 2022 at 10:43 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. This website is operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. You may browse and access information contained within this website — including completing user research tasks, like filling in a survey — without providing any personal information. If you provide information (including personal information) to us — for example, through the general enquiry form — we will only use that information to: We will keep any such information secure. We may share it with third parties to the extent necessary for the services they provide to us related to the purposes of our ICT systems and website. We have software to track which pages are visited. This helps us identify the most popular areas of our website. The information is aggregated, and we cannot identify individual visitors. Learn more about how we use statistical information You have the right to ask for a copy of any personal information we hold about you, and to ask for it to be corrected if you think it is wrong. If you would like to ask for a copy of your information, or to have it corrected, or you have any concerns about personal information that we hold, please write to: The Privacy Officer Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington or send an email to information@dpmc.govt.nz We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 12:24 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Welcome to Covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC-BY-NC Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/ (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government Logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photograph, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. DPMC may remove access to the content at any time. We updated this 'Copyright and attribution' section on 20 January 2022. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 12:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) Last updated: 6 October 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. You might be interested in Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. Some workers must be vaccinated against COVID-19 to go to work. Find more information on who needs to be vaccinated. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination.       Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers. Last updated: 14 July 2022 at 9:09 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines. Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. The AstraZeneca and Novavax COVID-19 vaccines are also available for people aged 18 and over. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. Last updated: 4 July 2022 at 1:07 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 vaccine protects your child, your whānau and your community. It is free and available now for everyone aged 5 and over.  COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Like adults, if your child is infected with COVID-19 they may transmit the virus to other people. Immunising tamariki helps protect whānau members whose health makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19.  COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. COVID-19 symptoms Tamariki aged 5 to 11 receive a children’s (paediatric) version of the Pfizer vaccine, with a lower dose and smaller volume. It is also given using a smaller needle. The lower dose was chosen based on a trial that showed the lower dose was safe and had few side effects in this age group. Children are not eligible for a booster or the AstraZeneca vaccine. To be fully protected, children need 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. It is recommended the first and second dose are at least 8 weeks apart. The interval can be shortened to a minimum of 21 days if needed — for example, if the child is starting significant immunosuppression treatment. You will need to discuss this with the child's doctor. If children and young people who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19.  Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. They only approve a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. The trials in 5 to 11-year-olds with a child dose of the Pfizer showed the vaccine was safe, and the side effects were generally mild. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand Research and data on vaccinating children aged 5 to 11 | Ministry of Health (external link) Explain that it might hurt for a short time, just like their other childhood immunisations. Tell them there will be a small needle and that they will feel a sharp scratch or sting briefly but then it will be over. They may have a sore arm, fever, headache or feel tired afterwards. It is important to tell them why they are getting vaccinated. Let them know the vaccine will protect them against COVID-19, and protect their family, their grandparents, their community, and other kids at school who may be more at risk from COVID-19 if they catch it. Make sure they know they will need 2 doses. Give them time to ask the vaccinator questions if they have them. Have some games or toys ready so you can distract them during their vaccination and entertain them while you wait for 15 minutes afterwards. Arrange a fun activity or treat to look forward to after the appointment. Tell them that they might feel a bit unwell or a day or two, and arrange to spend some extra time with them if you can. What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB]    There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. You can choose the child vaccine (5-11s) or adult vaccine (12+) from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map | Book My Vaccine (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites will be offering vaccinations to 5 to 11-year-olds. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you If you would like to talk through any questions or worries, you can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional.  Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link)  COVID-19 vaccination | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)  Last updated: 9 August 2022 at 2:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Answering your questions Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. In the clinical trials it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against Omicron, a booster is likely offer greater protection by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get a free booster now.    COVID-19 vaccines needed to be rolled out quickly, but that does not mean safety was compromised. The Pfizer vaccine we are using in New Zealand is held to the same high safety standards as any other medicine. COVID-19 vaccines are the most well-studied vaccines ever made. More than 50% of the world's population have had a COVID-19 vaccine. Nearly 4 million people in Aotearoa have had their second Pfizer vaccine, and over 2.5 million people have had a booster. This means we have lots of data to show the Pfizer vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety.   You might feel nervous about getting the vaccine, which is normal. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm, and it will be over very fast. You will then need to stay for at least 15 minutes so we can make sure you do not have an immediate reaction.    If you have another question, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 5:08 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and over who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. It is a viral vector vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 4 weeks or more. You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: COVID-19 vaccines: Getting AstraZeneca | Ministry of Health (external link) AstraZeneca will no longer be available from 5 September 2022. If you are planning to get an AstraZeneca booster, your appointment must be on or before 4 September. The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 9:02 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB]    Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 6:03 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster   If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Last updated: 22 June 2022 at 9:29 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. Children and young people with disabilities can get vaccinated at some accessible sites with their whānau. Learn more about vaccinations for children If you are aged 18 and over, and it has been 3 months since your last dose, you can book your booster now. Young people aged 16 and 17 can get a free Pfizer booster 6 months after completing their primary course. Learn more about booster doses If you are worried about getting the vaccine, you can talk to a trained advisor in the Healthline disability team. The team is made up of people who have experience of a disability themselves, or who have worked with the disabled community. They will support you, your whānau or someone you care for and answer any questions you may have about: The disability team is available Monday to Friday, from 8am to 8pm.  Using My Vaccine Pass is no longer a legal requirement, but some businesses, events and venues may choose to still use it. This means you may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter some places. You can still receive essential care even if you do not have a My Vaccine Pass. Your care and support workers must continue to be fully vaccinated and boosted. This is so they can keep you safe, and reduce the risk of passing COVID-19 to you. All health workers also need to be fully vaccinated and boosted. Find out more about the changes to My Vaccine Pass If you have decided you want to get the vaccine, it is easy to get vaccinated. You can get your vaccination at: You can also talk to, text or email a trained advisor to discuss whether a home vaccination is right for you. Some vaccination centres are fully accessible. Your family, whānau and support workers are also welcome to get their vaccinations with you. Map of vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand | karawhiua.nz (external link) You can book your vaccination by: The disability team can also help you book an appointment for your tamariki at an accessible site.  You can take a support person with you when you get your vaccination. This can be a carer, or someone else you trust. When you get to the vaccination site, you will need to sign in. If you need an NZSL interpreter or information in an accessible format, please ask. When it is your time to get vaccinated, the staff will ask you whether it is okay to give you the vaccine. If you say yes, this is called consent. If you cannot give consent, someone who is allowed to make decisions for you can give consent for you. The vaccinator may also ask you questions about how you are feeling, and what medication you take. It is normal to feel scared or worried. Ask the vaccinator if you have any questions. You will need to wait for 15 minutes after your vaccination. If this is hard for you, ask if you can wait somewhere else. You can choose to get the vaccine. You can say yes or no or ask for help making your decision. For disabled people or people with an impairment, the journey to get vaccinated may look a little different. We have created the Manaakitanga Journey online tool to help support disabled people to get vaccinated. If you are supporting someone with a disability to make a decision about getting the COVID-19 vaccine, you can use one of the supported decision making tools. Choose the guidance tool or combination of tools that best suits the person you are supporting. Last updated: 10 June 2022 at 2:36 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: You can get a free Pfizer booster if: Get your vaccine booster If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. Last updated: 7 July 2022 at 2:14 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan. Last updated: 11 October 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] Everything you need to know about Novavax [PDF, 321 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 360 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine Last updated: 23 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Choose an episode In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, traffic light settings, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face masks to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. Learn more about how Aotearoa New Zealand responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, and why getting vaccinated is an important step towards protection from the virus. COVID-19 is a disease caused by the virus SARS-CoV-2. But what is a virus? And how do vaccines prepare you to fight off these ‘invaders’, so you are less likely to get sick if you catch it? Vaccines can be made in different ways. For COVID-19, Aotearoa New Zealand chose to use a type of vaccine known as an mRNA vaccine, produced by Pfizer. But what is an mRNA vaccine? It is natural for a virus to change and produce variations of itself. These are known as 'variants' and are all slightly different to the original virus. But will vaccines still work against them? Development of vaccines for COVID-19 was based on decades of research. The vaccines were produced quickly because testing was able to be streamlined. Before getting consent for use in Aotearoa New Zealand, vaccines must meet our strict standards for quality and safety. The benefits of getting a COVID-19 vaccine far outweigh the risks. A vaccination provides you, your whānau and your communities better protection against the virus. When everyone is vaccinated, this helps to end the pandemic. Booking your COVID-19 vaccination is easy. When you get the 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine, you may experience some side effects. So what are they? Note: The advice about the gap between doses has changed since this video was made. Vaccination will help us get back to doing the things we love. But keep carrying out these simple steps so we stay on top of outbreaks: stay home if you are unwell and get a test, keep scanning in to keep track of where you have been, wear a face mask in situations where the virus could spread easily (like on public transport), and wash your hands regularly. Watch episode 8 (external link) Last updated: 7 July 2022 at 2:00 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB]  We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. Watch all our campaign videos (external link) COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine Last updated: 7 July 2022 at 2:07 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. What you need to know Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 or over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Children under 5 cannot get vaccinated for COVID-19. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines are not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. Note: AstraZeneca will no longer be available from 5 September 2022. If you are planning to get an AstraZeneca booster, your appointment must be on or before 4 September. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand You can get a free booster if you are aged 16 or over and have completed your primary course of the vaccine. For most people, the primary course is 2 doses. You can get a Pfizer booster 6 months after completing your primary course. You can get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca booster 3 months after completing your primary course, or a Novavax booster 6 months after completing your primary course. Note: AstraZeneca will no longer be available from 5 September 2022. If you are planning to get an AstraZeneca booster, your appointment must be on or before 4 September. It is recommended you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. Current evidence shows your protection against infection after 2 doses slowly decreases over time. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. Book your booster It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link)  Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 You will need your booking reference to reschedule or cancel an appointment online. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Cancel or change your booking online | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) Call: 0800 28 29 26 Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 9:01 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM | New Zealand Pharmacovigilance Centre (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams Last updated: 26 July 2022 at 2:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Some health and disability sector workers are required to be vaccinated, because they come into close contact with people who are likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order)  describes who in the health and disability sector is covered by the Vaccinations Order. COVID-19 booster vaccinations are also mandated for workforces covered by the Vaccinations Order. This means workers in these sectors must get a booster within 6 months (183 days) of completing their primary vaccination course. Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: The primary course of vaccination means 2 doses for all the recognised vaccines except Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) — only 1 dose is required for this vaccine. You may be able to get a temporary exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Exemptions from COVID-19 vaccination | Ministry of Health (external link) If your employees are not covered by the vaccine mandate, you can choose if you want to require your employees to be fully vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccinations can only be used as a measure if the risk of contracting and transmitting COVID-19 at work is higher than it is in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read the guidance on Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand for advice. COVID-19 controls at work – employer vaccination requirements | WorkSafe (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | Employment New Zealand (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | New Zealand Legislation (external link) Last updated: 11 July 2022 at 8:58 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. Find out when to use an International Travel Vaccination Pass, My Vaccine Pass or COVID-19 vaccination record as proof of your vaccination status. Find out how to use My Covid Record to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate, My Vaccine Pass and COVID-19 vaccination record. Last updated: 25 July 2022 at 3:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find out when to use an International Travel Vaccination Pass, My Vaccine Pass or COVID-19 vaccination record as proof of your vaccination status. If you are travelling overseas and must show proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status, you need an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. This certificate is available to anyone aged 5 or over who has had any dose of a COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. We also recommend downloading a copy of your COVID-19 vaccination records from My Covid Record to use alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate has a QR code with information about the COVID-19 vaccine doses you have had in New Zealand. The details on it must match your passport — you can review these when you request the certificate. The International Travel Vaccination Certificate complies with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. It is valid for 12 months. Get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate My Vaccine Pass is a record of your COVID-19 vaccination that you might be asked to show within New Zealand. While there is no legal requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Pass, some may choose to ask for them as a condition of entry. You can get an updated My Vaccine Pass if you are aged 12 or over and are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccination or have a temporary medical exemption. My Vaccine Passes are not required or available for children aged 5 to 11. It is valid for 6 months. Get a My Vaccine Pass Businesses can choose to require people to show their My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. It is up to each business to decide what is appropriate, taking into account the health and safety of their workers and customers. Requiring My Vaccine Passes for entry | business.govt.nz (external link) It can be used: Your vaccination record cannot be used instead of a My Vaccine Pass or an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your COVID-19 vaccination record includes: Get a COVID-19 vaccination record You can download your International Travel Vaccination Certificate, My Vaccine Pass or COVID-19 vaccination record from My Covid Record. How to use My Covid Record You can get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate or My Vaccine Pass by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline. They are available between 8am and 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 28 29 26 , choose option 4 You can get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate or My Vaccine Pass at some participating vaccination sites. Contact them first to confirm if they offer this service. COVID-19 vaccination sites | Healthpoint (external link) Last updated: 25 July 2022 at 3:33 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Anyone aged 12 or over who has accessed health or disability services in New Zealand can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: An Australian: Sign up for My Covid Record (external link)  1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the 'Passes and certificates' section, select 'Request pass or certificate'.   3. The 'Select who this pass or certificate is for' will open. Select either 'Myself' or 'Someone else'. 4. The 'Select a pass or certificate' option will appear. Select 'My Vaccine Pass' or 'International Travel Vaccination Certificate'.  5. You will then be prompted to enter details, including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your International Travel Vaccination Certificate or My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. You can print a physical copy or save it to a digital device, like your phone. To save it to your phone, click "Add to Apple Wallet" or "GPay — Save to phone" in the email you receive. If the pass does not immediately add, check you are using the Safari browser (iOS) or the Chrome browser (Android).  1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'.   3. You will be prompted to enter your email address.  4. Your COVID-19 vaccination record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. Last updated: 25 July 2022 at 3:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) privacy statement | Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines are not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects Last updated: 5 July 2022 at 3:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. What you need to know New Zealand's air border is fully open. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand by air. New Zealand's maritime border is now open. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand by sea. Advice for New Zealanders and residents in New Zealand who want to travel overseas. Last updated: 31 July 2022 at 11:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Advice for New Zealanders and residents in New Zealand who want to travel overseas. Your destination, transit location and transport operators may have their own testing and vaccination requirements. You may not be allowed to travel if you: Before you travel, check the travel advice for your destination and any transit locations to learn about their entry and exit requirements. If you are unsure, contact your airline, travel agent or the relevant government department in the country you are visiting. You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel (QFT). Normal immigration rules still apply. Check what you need to do to travel to the Cook Islands (external link) Niue's borders are now open. All travellers must: If you are visiting Niue, you must book your accommodation in advance for the duration of your stay. If you or someone you are travelling with tests positive for COVID-19, you may have to isolate and stay longer than planned. Make sure you have a plan for this. Entry requirements for Niue | Government of Niue (external link) Complete the Niue Traveller Declaration (external link) SafeTravel advice for Niue | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) Check what you need to do before you enter New Zealand. Preparing to travel to New Zealand Last updated: 8 August 2022 at 2:49 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. New Zealand’s borders are fully open. Find out what requirements you need to meet to enter New Zealand by air. Find out what you need to do enter New Zealand by sea Use our step-by-step guide to help you plan your travel and get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand. New Zealand's borders are now fully open to visitors from anywhere in the world. Most travellers must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. All travellers must complete the traveller declaration before travelling to New Zealand. Most travellers must take 2 rapid antigen tests after arriving in New Zealand. If you have recently arrived in New Zealand and test positive for COVID-19, you must self-isolate for 7 days. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: More help from SafeTravel (external link) Last updated: 10 August 2022 at 4:44 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A step-by-step guide on what you need to do to travel to New Zealand by air and meet COVID-19 requirements. Last updated: 10 August 2022 at 10:08 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You must take 2 RATs after you arrive if you are: You will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions on how to use them at the airport. You can find more information about the testing requirements on the COVID-19 Health Hub. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand | Health Hub (external link) You do not need to take another test, but you should check any pre-departure testing requirements of the country you are travelling to. You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. You will receive an email from the Ministry of Health with instructions on how to report your result. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results line with your result. The call centre is open from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call the COVID-19 Test Results line on: You may have to pay for your call if you are using an international SIM — check with your phone provider.  If you return a positive RAT result, or the result is invalid you must self-isolate at the place you are staying while you are in New Zealand. You must also get a PCR test to confirm your result. If your PCR is positive you must self-isolate for 7 days. If your PCR is negative, you do not need to continue to isolate. This is because a PCR result is more accurate than a RAT result. Isolation means staying in your home or holiday accommodation. Do not go to shops or any other public places. Follow the self-isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. If you have travelled to New Zealand by air, the people travelling with you will also need to isolate. If you are a visitor to New Zealand, you may need to pay for any extra accommodation costs. We strongly encourage everyone travelling to New Zealand to get comprehensive travel insurance which includes COVID-19 cover. Self-isolation requirements for travellers | Health Hub (external link) You must get a PCR test from a community testing centre or healthcare provider if your RAT: If you have reported your positive RAT, you will receive an email with a form for a PCR test. You can print the form or show it on your mobile device when you go to the community centre or healthcare provider. You may be asked for your National Health Index (NHI) number when booking your PCR test. If you are not a New Zealand citizen or resident, the testing centre will create you one. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. PCR tests if you have recently arrived in New Zealand | Health Hub (external link) If you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being here for 7 days or longer, follow the advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. You must: Self-isolation requirements for travellers | Health Hub (external link) Advice if you have COVID-19 | Health Hub (external link) If you or someone you are travelling with tests positive for COVID-19 while in New Zealand, you will not be able to return home or travel onwards until you have completed your 7 days of isolation. You should also check with your airline about any regulations they may have. Last updated: 31 May 2022 at 1:26 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most travellers must have had a f ull course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine to enter New Zealand. Booster doses are not required. Vaccination requirements apply to: If you are unvaccinated you cannot enter New Zealand — unless you are exempt or do not need to have proof of vaccination. Who does not need proof of vaccination You need to provide proof of your vaccinations. If you arrive by air, you will need to upload proof of your vaccinations to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. If you are arriving on a cruise ship, follow the instructions of your cruise operator. New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link)  You must provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand if you are: If you are unvaccinated, you cannot enter New Zealand. You may be able to get an exemption if you travel to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. Apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you have not been vaccinated. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you qualify for an exemption, and apply on the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an exemption | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have had 1 dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, but cannot have your next dose because you recently had COVID-19, you must provide proof. You need to get a letter from a health professional — for example, a doctor — confirming: Upload this letter to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration, along with proof of your first dose.  You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You do not need a booster dose. You can have doses of different vaccines if that combination is approved in the country you were vaccinated. Each vaccine must be on the list of approved vaccines. You need a digital vaccine certificate or an electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have been vaccinated. Your evidence must confirm you have received a full primary course of COVID-19 vaccines and include: If you are travelling to New Zealand by air, upload proof of your vaccinations to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. How to upload documents to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) If you need help completing the Traveller Declaration, you can contact them by phone, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Call: Download your International Travel Vaccination Certificate from the My Covid Record website. My Covid Record (external link) Overseas vaccination certificates do not have to be translated into English. If you have an English version, or if you can easily get one, we encourage you to bring this with you. Examples of accepted vaccination certificates | New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) Last updated: 27 May 2022 at 9:24 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. New Zealand’s maritime border is fully open. Find out how to enter New Zealand by sea. Find out what you need to do enter New Zealand by air  Use our step-by-step guide to help you plan your cruise to New Zealand, meet COVID-19 requirements and find advice on how to keep yourself and others safe. New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign commercial vessels, including trade and cargo vessels. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. New Zealand's maritime border is now open to foreign registered recreational vessels — including superyachts. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. Last updated: 31 July 2022 at 11:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. People entering New Zealand on a foreign trade, cargo or other commercial vessel must: Advice for trade and cargo vessels | Ministry of Health (external link) Foreign registered recreational vessels — including super yachts — must meet Customs arrival rules. All passengers and crew must have: Maritime border | New Zealand Customs (external link) Apply for an NZeTA | Immigration NZ (external link) Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand Last updated: 1 August 2022 at 12:52 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A step-by-step guide on what you need to do if you are entering New Zealand on a cruise ship. Last updated: 31 July 2022 at 11:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The following people can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world and self-test on arrival: Find out how to enter New Zealand by air If you are unvaccinated you cannot enter New Zealand — unless you are exempt or do not need to have proof of vaccination. Who does not need proof of vaccination Visa waiver countries and territories | Immigration NZ (external link) Accredited Employer Work Visa | Immigration NZ (external link) Check if you need to apply for a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) before you travel. Apply for an NZeTA | Immigration NZ (external link) You can apply for a visitor visa to travel to New Zealand from a Pacific Island Forum country. The full list of Pacific Island Forum countries is on Immigration NZ's website. Travelling from the Pacific islands | Immigration NZ (external link) The following vessels can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world : Find out how to enter New Zealand by sea  Last updated: 12 August 2022 at 9:42 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. What you need to know What steps to take if you have tested positive for COVID-19. If you are self-isolating because of COVID-19, help is available if you need it. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery, including Long COVID. Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 11:27 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since a previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms) and: If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. Household Contacts Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 3 months after testing positive before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. Get a COVID-19 vaccination Last updated: 11 August 2022 at 9:53 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, or if you are an employee. If you or someone in your household are waiting for a COVID-19 PCR test result and need to stay home, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply to help pay you. You can also apply if you are self-employed. Your employer can get a one-off payment of $359. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. Applications for the Short-Term Absence Payment are closing soon. Only PCR tests taken on or before 22 August 2022 will be accepted. Employers can apply for this payment up to 8 weeks after your PCR test. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment | Work and Income (external link) If you cannot work from home while you are self-isolating, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. You may also be eligible for the scheme if you or someone you care for is at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme | Work and Income (external link) Extra help while you are self-isolating | Work and Income (external link) If you have lost your job or you cannot work at the moment, you may be able to get help from Work and Income. Use the online tool to find out what type of help you may qualify for. Support if you are not working | Work and Income (external link) If you have lost your job because you decide not to get the COVID-19 vaccination, Work and Income may be able to help. You can: You can get financial support from Work and Income regardless of your vaccination status. Lost job because of vaccination requirement | Work and Income (external link) If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Help for you and your whānau during COVID-19 | Work and Income (external link) Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | Ministry of Social Development (MSD) (external link) (external link) If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Contact details of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission (external link) (external link) If you are an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available. Last updated: 11 August 2022 at 8:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You may be able to get: Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help from Work and Income (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 . It is open 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday, and 8am to 1pm Saturday, Sunday and public holidays. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. Keep in touch with your friends and whānau , your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | Work and Income (external link) If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support Last updated: 20 July 2022 at 1:57 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 you need to self-isolate for at least 7 days. Find out what else you need to do. Find detailed advice about managing your symptoms and what to do while you are self-isolating on the Ministry of Health's COVID-19 Health Hub. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If you have taken a rapid antigen test (RAT), report your positive result online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result The Ministry of Health will then send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers to confirm your positive result. This has information about self-isolation, support options, and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If your employer asks to see proof that you must to isolate, you can use this text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. Proof of isolation for employees and employers | Ministry of Health (external link) You must self-isolate for at least 7 days while you recover. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Work out your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Your Household Contacts will also need to isolate for 7 days, unless they have had COVID-19 in the last 3 months. Advice for your Household Contacts You must stay at home and avoid contact with other people in your household. Find out what to do when self-isolating, including permitted reasons to leave self-isolation, and how to ventilate your home. How to self-isolate Ventilation and COVID-19 Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using your 6-digit access code. (You can find this code in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers .) For most people, the form will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and do not complete the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. Contact tracing form user guides | Ministry of Health (external link) You also need to tell your close contacts you have COVID-19. This includes the people you live with, and your workplace or school. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Most people with COVID-19 — especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted — are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to recover at home. Symptoms for COVID-19 tend to show 2 to 5 days after a person has been infected but can take up to 14 days. Omicron causes similar symptoms to other variants. Advice on managing your COVID-19 symptoms | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If you need advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If your symptoms get worse or you need urgent medical care, call your local healthcare provider or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 If you or the person you are caring for develops difficulty breathing, severe chest pain, fainting or becomes unconscious, call 111 immediately. Medicines to treat COVID-19 are available for people who are at risk of developing serious illness and for some people who have tested positive for COVID-19. Medicines to treat COVID-19 You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs for up to 6 weeks from the first day you develop symptoms or the date of your first positive test, whichever came first. This includes 1 follow-up check with your healthcare provider if required during those 6 weeks, once your acute episode of COVID-19 is over. After you have had the follow-up check, if you required one, and you no longer have acute COVID-19, you will then need to pay for your future visits to your doctor and prescription dispensing fees, just as you would for other medical conditions, even if it is within the 6-week period. You can end your self-isolation 7 days after your symptoms started or you tested positive, whichever came first. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave self-isolation. You may receive a text message confirming your self-isolation period has ended. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school. Some people can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. Your Household Contacts can complete their isolation at the same time as you, as long as their Day 7 test was negative and they have no new or worsening symptoms. If they test positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts You do not need to isolate as a Household Contact for 90 days from when you first tested positive if someone else in your household gets COVID-19 during this time. The chance of you being reinfected with COVID-19 in the 90 days after testing positive is low. After you have had COVID-19 The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can co-ordinate extra support for you if you need it. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. Last updated: 4 August 2022 at 10:31 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Use the COVID-19 Health Hub to work out your isolation timeline. Create your isolation timeline (external link) Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. Ventilation and COVID-19 You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are self-isolating: We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] You are allowed to leave the place you are self-isolating for the following reasons. You must always wear a mask. Do not use public transport, taxis or rideshare vehicles. You can: You are allowed to exercise outside your home while self-isolating. You can exercise in your neighbourhood, but not using any shared facility, such as a swimming pool or gym. You cannot exercise with other people, unless they are part of your household. Be mindful to: Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 8:27 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. This page is for people who live in New Zealand and are travelling domestically. What to do if you test positive while visiting New Zealand from another country You could get COVID-19 or find out you are a Household Contact while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. If you test positive for COVID-19 If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Order a rapid antigen test (RAT) online and pick up from your nearest collection point. COVID-19 symptoms You should tell your accommodation provider if you have tested positive. They can make sure the property is safe for the next booking. More advice around temporary accommodation can be found on the Ministry of Health website: Guidance for isolating in temporary or holiday accommodation | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive or you are a Household Contact, you cannot: If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. If you have to self-isolate where you are, you will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. Care in the Community Getting help if you are self-isolating Check the COVID-19 Health Hub for advice. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Plan: You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate If you or your travelling companions can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate Last updated: 4 July 2022 at 10:04 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat eligible people with COVID-19 at home. You must start taking COVID-19 medicines within the first 5 days of getting symptoms. When taken early in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you stay out of hospital. These medicines are free for eligible people within 5 days of their symptoms starting. People with a high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are eligible for treatment with COVID-19 medicines. Talk to your doctor or nurse by phone to see if getting a prescription is right for you. They will help you work out if you are eligible for COVID-19 medicine. It will depend on several factors, including your age, ethnicity, other health conditions and vaccination status. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. How to get a COVID-19 test If you are at risk of becoming very unwell with COVID-19 you may be able to get a prescription before you get COVID-19. This means the pharmacist will have the prescription ready to use if you become unwell. If you test positive, you can then arrange to have the medicine delivered by your friends, whānau or the pharmacy. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will confirm that it is still safe for you to take COVID-19 medicines. You will not be able to get the medicine until you are diagnosed with COVID-19. Talk to your doctor or nurse to see if getting a prescription before you get unwell is right for you. You might be eligible to get COVID-19 medicines from a pharmacist if you have tested positive, or have symptoms and are a Household Contact. You do not need a doctor’s prescription. Some pharmacists will be able to supply COVID-19 antivirals without a prescription. Talk to your pharmacist or a registered nurse either immediately after you test positive or develop symptoms to see if the medicines are right for you. To be eligible you must also either: You might also be eligible if you: Find out about high-risk medical conditions on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Higher-risk people | Ministry of Health (external link)  Three COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat early COVID-19 at home:  Pharmacies supplying antivirals can be found on Healthpoint. You will need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) You will not need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you do not need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) If you have COVID-19 or are a Household Contact you must self-isolate for at least 7 days and cannot leave your home. If you are eligible for medicines, arrange to have them delivered by friends, whānau or by other means. Some pharmacies can deliver the medicine. How to self-isolate Some other medicines are available to treat COVID-19 but are only given in hospital. Pharmac, the agency which decides what medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand, has more information on its website. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) Last updated: 11 August 2022 at 3:43 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find COVID-19 information in your language, accessible formats and download posters and resources for your business or household. Information and advice translated into different languages. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Download our posters and resources for your home and business. Last updated: 2 December 2021 at 4:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Our team works hard to make sure information in alternate formats is available as quickly as possible. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. Last updated: 4 August 2022 at 3:30 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. An audio description adds an audio track to videos to describe essential information that is only presented visually on the screen. Audio descriptions help people who: Find out more about audio description (external link) Get audio descriptions of why we wear a mask or face covering on planes and public transport. Get audio descriptions of the NZ Vaccine Facts animated series. Get audio descriptions about Bluetooth tracing and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Last updated: 11 May 2022 at 11:05 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. Last updated: 17 January 2022 at 3:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Braille: Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 1:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. This page has lots of links to Easy Read information. Scroll down the page and click the boxes below to find more information. Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Easy Read: Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 12 August 2022 at 12:51 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand.       Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 22 July 2022 at 9:05 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 9:42 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand.    Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 12 August 2022 at 12:50 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 9 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find out about getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:13 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:14 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand.     Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 1 August 2022 at 9:41 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand.   Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 13 June 2022 at 2:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: Last updated: 3 June 2022 at 9:35 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Large print and Audio: The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to, from and around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. Last updated: 1 August 2022 at 4:04 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 4 July 2022 at 2:35 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 20 July 2022 at 1:55 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 1 August 2022 at 11:46 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 25 May 2022 at 8:46 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 1 July 2022 at 12:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language: The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Find out what you need to do if you are planning to travel to, from or around New Zealand. Find out about support available through the pandemic in New Zealand Sign Language Last updated: 4 August 2022 at 4:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Find out about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand and how to get vaccinated Find out how to get proof of vaccination for use in New Zealand and when travelling overseas Find out about vaccinating your child against COVID-19 Last updated: 11 May 2022 at 11:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. There was a problem loading the media. Last updated: 4 August 2022 at 4:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government no longer requires My Vaccine Pass to be used to access businesses, events and services. Businesses can still choose to require My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry if there are health and safety reasons for doing so. Some workers are still required to be vaccinated. Vaccinations and work Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:09 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. There was a problem loading the media. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:11 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 4 August 2022 at 4:36 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out about COVID-19 symptoms and variants of the virus Find out when you need to wear a face mask Find out how your household can prepare for COVID-19 Last updated: 26 January 2022 at 1:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 7 June 2022 at 2:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:10 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. There was a problem loading the media. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:12 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:05 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive Find out how contact tracing works, and about the NZ COVID Tracer app Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:13 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:11 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 18 July 2022 at 2:08 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 20 July 2022 at 1:03 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Last updated: 14 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Download posters and resources for your household and business to help everyone keep safe from COVID-19. You can view and download all our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz Download a printable table of the traffic light settings. Businesses and workplaces are no longer required to display a QR code poster but can choose to do so. Get your QR code poster (external link) (external link) Manage and reprint your QR code posters (external link) (external link) More information about NZ COVID Tracer QR codes | health.govt.nz (external link) A simplified version is available for disabled communities: There is no requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses can choose to check My Vaccine Pass if they would like to. If your business chooses to, you could display a poster to let people know: Find out more about My Vaccine Pass We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages Last updated: 25 May 2022 at 11:42 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo. Last updated: 20 July 2022 at 10:10 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga, ā, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he ngāwari noa ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakahaere i ēnei i te kāinga. Engari mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana te āwhina mēnā e hiahia ana koe. I muri i tō whakaoranga i te KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua puta i te noho taratahi, tērā ētahi āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, hei whakaarotanga māhau i a koe e whakamātūtū ana. Last updated: 14 March 2022 at 4:54 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. I a koe e whakaora mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19, tērā pea ka tere ngenge koe, ka tūngāngā rānei. He mea māori noa tēnei i muri o te pānga ki te mate. Me āta kuhu haere i a koe, i te wā e hoki haere ana ki ngā mahi noa. Me whakarite: Mēnā he āwangawanga ōu, me kōrero koe ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora rānei. Mēnā he tohumate tonu ōu i muri i te wā noho taratahi, me noho tonu koe ki te kāinga, ki reira whakamātūtū ai. Me noho pēnei kia 24 hāora mai i te korenga haere o ō tohumate. Me kōrero koe ki tō kaiwhakhaaere, kaitirotiro rānei mō te wā tika mōu ki te hoki ki te mahi. Mēnā he tohumate tonu ōu, ō tō tamaiti rānei i muri i te wā noho taratahi, me noho tonu koe ki te kāinga, ki reira whakamātūtū ai. Me noho pēnei kia 24 hāora mai i te korenga haere o ngā tohumate. Ka pā tēnei ki ngā kura kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā kura wānanga hoki. Ehara i te mea me whakaatu taunakitanga koe o tētahi RAT, PCR rānei e tohu ana kāore koe i te pāngia, e hoki ai koe ki te kura. Mēnā kua 10 rā neke atu mai i te kitenga tuatahi o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua kore e māuiui ngā tamariki, ko te āhua nei kua kore e pokea, ā, kua pai ki te hoki ki te kura. Mēnā e māuiui tonu ana te tamaiti, i kino haere ana rānei ngā tohumate i muri i te 10 rā, me kaua e hoki ki te kura. Me kōrero koe ki tō tākuta, waea rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . I te wā e māuiui ana koe, ā, kāore koe i te tino kori, te nekeneke haere rānei, me whai wā anō tō tinana ki te hoki atu anō ki ngā taumata kori o mua. Ka taea e tō tākuta, mātanga hauora rānei te tuku kōrero ki a koe, me pēhea te hoki atu anō ki ngā mahi kori tinana, e hāngai ana ki tō āhuatanga. Ka taea anō e koe ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te hoki ki te mahi kori tinana i te pae tukutuku a Health Navigator: Te hoki ki ngā mahi kori tinana i muri i te KOWHEORI-19 | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) Horapa haere ai te KOWHEORI-19 mā te pānga tata ki tētahi tangata e pokea ana, i te wā ka mare, ka matihe rānei. Ahakoa he iti ake te tūponotanga, ka pokea tonu pea koe ki te pā koe ki tētahi mea, mata rānei kua tāhawahawatia, kātahi ka pā ki tōu ake waha, ihu, kanohi rānei. He poto te wā e ora ai te huaketo i runga i ngā mata. Engari he makuhane te kiriuhi o waho, nā reira he ngāwari noa te patu mā te horoi me te patu huakita. I ngā wā ka whakatauhia he kēhi KOWHEORI-19 i rō whare i roto i te 24 hāora, he nui ake te tūpono kitea o te huaketo i ngā mata. Me ata horoi, patu huakita hoki ngā mata katoa. Ina pā mai anō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua 28 rā, iti ake rānei mai i tō pokenga i mua (mai i te wā i kitea e pāngia ana koe, i kitea rānei ngā tohumate tuatahi), ā: Mēnā kua hoki mai anō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua 29 rā neke atu rānei mai i te pokenga o mua, me whakamātau ki te RAT. Mēnā e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe, me noho taratahi anō, ka whai hoki i ngā tohutohu ānō nei ko tō pokenga tuatahi. Mahia he whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 Te noho taratahi i te kāinga Kia ora mai koe i te COVID-19, kua kore koe e mate ki te noho taratahi anō mō te 3 marama, ki te pāngia tētahi kainoho i tō kāinga e te mate. I pēnei ai nā te mea he tino iti tō morea pāngia anō e te mate i taua wā. Ngā Pānga ā-Kāinga E whakaahua ana te KOWHEORI roa i ngā tohumate ka kitea tonutia ka whanake rānei i muri i ngā tohumate tuatahi o te KOWHEORI-19. Kitea ai tēnei i muri i te 12 wiki o te pokenga tuatahi o te tangata. Ko te nuinga o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ka ora mai i muri i te 2 ki te 6 wiki, ā, otirā ka tino ora mai i roto i te 12 wiki. Engari, ko ētahi ka pāngia tonutia e ngā tohumate i tua noa atu i taua wā. Kitea tonutia ai ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI roa i ngā wiki me ngā marama tonu i muri iho. Ko ētahi o ēnei ko te: Mō ngā tautoko ki te whakahaere me te whakamaimoa i te KOWHOERI roa, me rapu āwhina i tō tākuta, rōpū hauora rānei.Ka utua katoatia te tiaki hauora KOWHEORI-19 mō te 6 wiki mai i te rā tuatahi o ō tohumate, te rā rānei i tohu te whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe, ko te mea tuatahi o ēnei. Ka kitea ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te KOWHEORI roa, me ētahi atu tohumate whānui e pūrongotia ana, i te pae tukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora: KOWHEORI roa | health.govt.nz (external link) Kia ora mai koe, ā, mēnā kāore anō i whiwhi i te kano ārai mate, te whiwhi i te pota āpiti rānei, e whakahaua ana kia whiwhi tonu koe i te kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō te 3 marama i muri i te whakaoranga mai i mua o te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHOERI-19. Tīkina he kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Last updated: 20 July 2022 at 10:09 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ka taea e te nuinga te noho pai nā runga i te āwhina a te whānau me ngā hoa. Engari ki te hiahia koutou ko tō whānau i ētahi atu āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, ka taea pea ētahi atu āwhina pēnei i te: Ka taea e te katoa te tono āwhina mēnā e hiahiatia ana - ehara i te mea me noho koe i runga i te penihana. Ka taea e koe te waea atu ki te waea oranga KOWHEORI mō te koreutu i te 0800 512 337 , 8am ki te 8pm, 7 rā i te wiki. Me whakapā tonu koe ki ō hoa me tō whānau, me ngā rōpū hapori e whai pānga ana ki a koe. Mā rātou e: Ina kino haere ō tohumate, ka hiahia rānei koe i ētahi tiakanga hauora uruhi, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora tūtata, ki a Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ina kino haere tō whakangā, te tangata rānei e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he mamae rānei te uma, e hemohemo haere ana, me tere te waea ki 111 . Tērā hoki he tautoko ā-pūtea mā te hunga e tika ana kia noho ki te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Tautoko ā-pūtea Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, e āwangawanga ana rānei mō tētahi atu, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. Rapua ngā waea āwhina ki te rapu tautoko Last updated: 14 March 2022 at 4:51 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga koe mēnā: Ka taea te noho taratahi i te kāinga, i tētahi wāhi noho tōtika rānei. Me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga mō te 7 rā i te iti rawa i a koe e whakaora mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Me tīmata ki te kaute i ngā rā e 7 mai i te rā kore (0). Ko te rā 0 koinā te rā i pā mai ai ō tohumate, i kitea rānei kei te pāngia koe e te mate (mēnā kāore ō tohumate). Ko te tikanga o te noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te katoa o te wā i whakaritea kia noho koe ki reira, hāunga mō ētahi pūtake whāiti kia wehe koe. Ā, me tūpato koe kia kore ai e pātata ki te hunga e noho tahi ai koe. Ngā tohutohu mō te noho taratahi: Mēnā kāore i te haumaru mōu kia noho taratahi i te kāinga, ka taea pea he wāhi noho atu anō mōu. Ka taea e koe tēnei te tono mā te puka tuihono. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, me wawe tonu tō noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te 7 rā mai i te rā i kitea kei te pāngia ia e te mate (i te rā rānei i pā mai ngā tohumate, ko te mea tuatahi o ēnei). Me noho koe ki te kāinga i a koe e noho taratahi ana, engari ehara i te mea me karo koe i ētahi atu o tō whare engari ia mēnā pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Me haere koe kia whakamātautauhia ina eke te tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 e noho tahi ana koe ki te rā 3 me te rā 7 o tōna mate. Ka āhei koe ki te whakamutu i tō noho taratahi i te rā tonu ka mutu te tangata tuatahi i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, mēnā ka whakaatu tō whakamātautau kāore koe i te mate i te rā 7, ā, kāore he tohumate hou, kino ake rānei. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia anō tētahi o tō kāinga e te mate, ka āhei tonu ērā atu o te whare te whakamutu tā rātau noho taratahi ina mutu taua tangata tuatahi, engari me kore katoa ōna tohumate, kua kitea rānei kua kore kē e pāngia e te mate. Engari, ki te pāngia ētahi o te kāinga e te mate, me tīmata anō tā rātau noho taratahi mō te 7 rā. Mēnā he Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe engari kāore koe i te noho tahi me te tangata kua pāngia e te mate, kāore koe e mate ki te noho taratahi engari anō mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ki te pā mai ngā tohumate, me mātua whakaritea he whakamātautau. I te mea he mea nui ngā ratonga hira mō ngā hiahia taketake o te tangata, he whakarato hanganga hira, he wāhanga hoki/rānei o ngā mekameka ratonga hira, ka taea e ā rātau kaimahi te toro i te Kaupapa Aweretanga Mō te Tāngata Whaipānga Tata. Ko ngā kaimahi kua werohia, kāore i te mate, kei ngā ratonga hira rēhita he whaipānga tata i te kāinga ki tētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 ka taea tonu te mahi, engari ia me whakaatu tō rātau whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere kāore rātau i te mate i mua i te tīmatanga o te rā, wāhanga mahi rānei kei te mahi rātau i te wā noho taratahi, me te whai i ngā tikanga hauora tauwhāiti. Ka āhei anake rātau ki te haere ki te mahi – kaua ki wāhi kē. Ka taea e ēnei kaimahi te tiki ngā kete whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere mai i te wāhi hei tiki atu. Te whakamātautau me te hoki ki te mahi i te wā Omikona | business.govt.nz (external link) Ka āhei tētahi pakihi, kaihokohoko takitahi rānei ki tētahi kaimahi he tangata whaipānga tata kei te wāhi mahi mēnā kāore ia i te pā ki ngā manuhiri, ā, me te noho ki te 'Rāhui Takitahi' i a ia i te mahi (me te haere atu me te hoki atu i te mahi). Me mātua whiwhi wero kano ārai mate te kaimahi, kāore ōna tohumate, ā, ka taea tonu te ū ki te 'rāhui takitahi' i a ia i te mahi (ahakoa kei roto, kei waho rānei). Ka āhei anake ia ki te haere ki te mahi – kaua ki wāhi kē. Rāhui Takitahi | business.govt.nz (external link) Ka āhei ngā ratonga manaaki waiwai, pērā i ngā mahi o te wharepaku, te horoi me te kai, ki te haere tonu. Mēnā ka kitea he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga ki tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, me mātua whakamahi ngā kaitiaki i ngā tikanga horoi pai me te noho wehe i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea. Mēnā kaore e taea tēnei, me mātua mau utauta whakamaru tangata pērā i ngā karapu maka noa me ngā ārai kanohi. Ngā kōrero mā ngā kaimahi tautoko (external link) Mēnā ka pā mai ki a koe, ki tētahi atu rānei e tiakina ana e koe ngā tohumate kino me wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . Ko ngā tohumate kino pea: Mēnā he kino ake tō mate, ā, me uru ki te hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i tō hoki ki te kāinga me te whai anō i ō mahi noa. Ka tirotirohia tēnei e ai ki te āhuatanga e tētahi mātanga hauora. Kāore he utu hauora mō te KOWHEORI-19. He maha ngā tāngata ka taea e rātau te noho taratahi i te kāinga me ngā āwhina mai i ngā hoa me te whānau, engari he āwhina kei reira mēnā kei te hiahia koe. Ngā tautoko mā ngā āwhina me ngā tāngata takitahi Ngā tautoko mā ngā pakihi | business.govt.nz (external link) He tautoko atu anō mēnā kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, kei te noho taratahi rānei Last updated: 14 March 2022 at 4:51 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Mēnā he pātai āu, e hiahia āwhina ana rānei, īmēra ki COVID19Brand@dpmc.govt.nz Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā momo rerekē o te huaketo Rapua ngā wā me mau maruhā koe Rapua he kōrero me pēhea tō whare, tō pakihi rānei e whakariterite mō te KOWHEORI-19 E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua ngā wā me mau maruhā koe Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o ngā pata i te wā e kōrero ana, e kata ana, e maremare ana, e matihe ana hoki te tangata. Ka hāngai hoki ki tēnei ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 engari e ora ana te āhua, otirā kāore he tohumate mārama. He wā anō, tē taea e ētahi tāngata te mau maruhā. He mea nui kia māhaki, ka atawhai Last updated: 18 February 2022 at 10:09 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko te tikanga pai, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare. Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. Hei ture ahuwhānui, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare.Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama e toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Last updated: 31 March 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Kia mahara koe ki tēnei āhuatanga. E whai āheinga tonu ana rātou ki ngā ratonga kai, kēmehi me ētahi atu ratonga. Mēnā e taea ana, ka akiakitia koe ki te mau i tētahi ārai kanohi. Ko te mau ārai kanohi kāore e hiahiatia: Kāore hoki koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā: E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mau i tētahi, ka taea e koe te tiki kāri awere. Ka taea e koe te whakaatu i tō kāri awere i ngā wā e hiahia ana. He kāri awere i ngā ārai kanohi (external link) Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 1:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā momo rerekē o te huaketo Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te horapa o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, he aha hoki ngā tohumate rerekē o te huaketo Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta, Omicron hoki. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. I tere te hora a te momo Delta puta noa i te ao Te Hunga e Pokea ana e te Delta: Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. He 64–95% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki te māuiui whai tohumate. Kua tata ki te 90–96% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō te karo i te whakaurunga ki te hohipera, i te māuiui taumaha rānei nā te whakapokenga Delta. I kitea tuatahitia te Omicron i te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2021, ā, i whakatauhia hei momo mōrearea e te World Health Organisation. Kua tere hora puta noa ki te ao, ā, e kitea ana i ngā whenua neke atu i te 70. E whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga tōmua he tūpono nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron i ērā o ngā momo o te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te Delta. E ako tonu ana mātou mō tēnei momo o te wheori. E whakaatu ana ngā pūrongo tōmua, ina whakatauritehia ki te Delta: E tohu ana ngā tātaritanga tōmua tērā ka puta anō he āraitanga i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te tahumaero ā-tohumate ka hua mai i te Omicron, engari ka heke haere tēnei āraitanga ā tōna wā. Ka nui ake te āraitanga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te pota āpiti. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te:  Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 1:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero me pēhea tō whare, tō pakihi rānei e whakariterite mō te KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero o ngā mahi ka taea e koe ki te whakariterite i tō whare mō te KOWHEORI-19 Me whakarite mahere mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ō kaimahi, ō kaiwhakarato, ō kiritaki rānei. Last updated: 25 February 2022 at 5:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Kei reira ētahi mahi māmā ka taea e ngā rangatira pakihi kia whāiti te hōrapa o te huaketo i waenga i ngā kaimahi, kiritaki me ētahi atu manuhiri. Me mātua whakarite kei te mārama koe, ā, ka whakatinanahia ngā whakaritenga mō tō pakihi i raro i te tikanga rama ikiiki. Rapu mōhio mō ngā rama ikiiki Whakamahia te utauta aromatawai werohanga kia mōhio ai mēnā me whakahaere pea ngā mahi i tō pakihi e te hunga kua werohia. Kei raro ētahi rāngai e ngā whakatau werohanga. Werohanga KOWHEORI-19 me te whai mahi | Employment NZ (external link) Ngā whakatau werohanga E paiherea ana ngā pakihi katoa ki te tiaki i ngā kaimahi me ētahi atu kua raru ā rātau mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 me ētahi atu mōrea ki tō rātau hauora me tō rātau haumaru. Me mātua whakarite kei te tino haumaru rawa atu tō pakihi, wāhi mahi rānei: Me takatū, me haumaru Te whaiwhai i te pātanga me te whakamātautau Ngā tautoko pūtea mā ngā pakihi Whakahauhau | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Me whakarite mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI ki tō wāhi, ngā kaimahi me ētahi atu pakihi e mahi ana koe. Me mōhio koe he aha ō kawenga hei rangatira pakihi. Me whai whakaaro pea koe ki ēnei: Ka whakarato tautoko pūtea te Utu Hōnea Wā Poto KOWHEORI-19 me te Kaupapa Tautoko Whakamatuatanga mā ngā pakihi. Ngā tautoko pūtea mā ngā pakihi Mēnā he tuku ratonga koe, hua rānei ki ētahi atu pakihi, me whakapā atu pea koe ki ō kiritaki ka tuari i ō mahere. Mā te mārama ki ā rātau mahere ka āwhina anō pea i a koe kia takatū ai ki ngā rerekētanga o nga tono, ngā wā, me pēhea rānei te whakahāngai i te āhua o tō tuku i ō ratonga me ō hua kia rite ai ki ngā tikanga e mahi nei rātau. Me whai whakaaro pea koe ki ēnei: Mēnā e whirinaki ana tō pakihi ki ngā hua, ngā ratonga rānei a ētahi atu pakihi, me kōrero koe ki a rātau mō ā rātau mahere mahi haere tonu, mahere tuarua hoki. Ka whai pānga pea ā rātau mahere ki āu ake. Ka hiahia pea koe ki te kōrero ki ngā kaiwhakarato: Me whai whakaaro ki te hunga e whirinaki ana koe e mahi tahi nei tō pakihi me te whiriwhiri i ngā upane ka taea e koe me taua kaiwhakarato kia mau ai ngā ratonga e hiahiatia ana, ngā rawa rānei, ki te pāngia rātau e te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whiwhi wero te tikanga pai rawa hei tiaki i ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te hunga 18 tau, pakeke atu rānei e āhei ana ki tētahi potanga whakakaha mēnā kua eke te 3 marama mai i tā rātau whiwhi i te potanga matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu mōhio mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Te kōrero ki ngā kaimahi mō te werohanga | Employment New Zealand (external link) Kāore e kore ka pāngia tētahi tangata e mōhio ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Kei reira te pūnaha hauora manaaki i ngā wā katoa ki te tiaki i te hunga hiahia āwhina, engari ko te nuinga o ngā tāngata ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e mate ki te uru ki te hōhipera, ā, ka pai noa iho te noho taratahi i te kāinga. Me noho ngā tāngata katoa ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tāngata i ō rātau whare ki te kāinga, ā, kia kaua e pāpā ki ētahi atu, tae atu ki ō rātau hoa, whānau hoki. Me whakatenatena i te tangata ki te hanga mahere mā te whakamahi i tētahi Rārangi Arowhai Takatū Mō te KOWHEORI-19. Me tikiake tētahi Rārangi Arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ka pā mai pea te ahotea i te whakahaere i ngā pānga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka hiahia tohutohu pea koe, ō hoa mahi, ō kaimahi rānei, he tangata noa iho rānei ki te kōrero – e wātea ana ngā āwhina. Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Last updated: 25 February 2022 at 5:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Kāore e kore ka kitea he kēhi tōrunga o te KOWHEORI-19 i tō hapori. Ka wātea tonu te pūnaha tiaki hauora mō te hunga e hiahia ana i tā mātou āwhina engari ko te nuinga o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, e kore e mate ki te noho ki te hōhipera, ā, ka āhei ki te noho taratahi haumaru i te kāinga. Me noho i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi i te whakamātautau e whakaatu ana kua pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 me ērā hoki e noho ana i tō rātou kāinga, ā, me kaua e whakapā ki ētahi atu, tae ake ki te whānau. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ko te tangata, ngā whakawhiti kōrerorero, ngā hononga me te mōhio me aha. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ka taea e tō whānau me te hapori te āwhina tētahi i tētahi mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Whakamahia te rārangi i raro nei ki te whakarite kōrerorero, ki te whakatau hoki he pēhea nei tō rite ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka whakarite mahere mō tō kāinga. Whakaritea ka aha koe mēnā ka māuiui tētahi Tirohia ngā mea e hiahiatia ana e koe hei āwhina i a koe me te hunga kei tō taha Me mātua whakarite kia mōhio ngā tino tāngata me aha rātou Kei roto tātou katoa i tēnei tū āhua, ā, ka puta tahi tātou i tēnei tū āhua Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 1:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. Kimihia ngā mōhiohio mō te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki hei te wā o te urutā KOWHEORI-19. Kei te hiahia tātou katoa ki te kai me ngā mea waiwai pērā i te rongoā i ngā wā o te rāhuitanga KOWHEORI-19, nō reira kaua e whakatiki i a koe. Kei tēnei pārongo ngā mōhiohio mō ngā huarahi maha e whiwhi kai ai, e whiwhi mea waiwai ai koe. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. Last updated: 1 September 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Rapua he mōhiohio, he tohutohu hoki mō te whakahaere whakamātautau, kia hea mahia ai, ā, ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te mate Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te whaiwhai pānga, ā, me te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te whaiwhai pānga, ā, me te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer Mā te whaiwhai i te pātanga ka taea e mātau te kimi te hunga kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, tukuna haumarutia ō mōhiohio i runga ipurangi ki Te Manatū Hauora hei whakamōhio i ētahi atu me pēhea te tirotiro i ngā tohumate. Last updated: 18 February 2022 at 10:11 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Mēnā ka pāngia te tangata e te KOWHEORI-19, me kimi mātau i te hunga i whai pānga pea ki te mate. Koinei te whaiwhai i te pātanga. Ka āwhina te whaiwhai i te pātanga i hea e pāngia ana te tangata e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ko wai atu te hunga i pāngia pea. He tāngata whaipānga ēnei. He Tangata Pānga ā-Kāinga koe mēnā e noho ana koe me tētahi tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. He Tangata Pānga ā-Kāinga: Ahakoa kua werohia koe, kāore rānei, ko tāu me: Ngā tāngata pānga ā-kāinga Noho taratahi i te kāinga Ka aha mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia au e te mate? He Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe mēnā i pā koe ki tētahi tangata e pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e hopuhopu ana te mate i a ia. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi koe mēnā he Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe. Me tirotiro i a koe anō mō ngā tohumate, ā, ki te pā mai, me haere kia whakamātautauhia. Ngā tāngata whaipānga tata Mēnā kua kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 me whakamōhio atu i hea koe, ā, i tūtaki koe ki a wai. Ka taea e koe tēnei te mahi kia haumaru mā tētahi puka whaiwhai i te pātanga. Ka mahia tēnei i tua atu i tētahi uiui waea. Mēnā he nama waea kawe whaimana tāu, ka whiwhi pātuhi koe me te hononga me te waehere whakauru, e oti ai tēnei puka. Mā te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e koe te tuari: Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer me te whakataki Hono Iarere, ka taea e koe te tuari tō rātaka matihiko me ō raraunga Hono Iarere. He tere ake te whakaoti i te puka i tētahi uiui — he tata ki te 30 meneti te roa. Mēnā kāore e tīmataria e koe te puka i roto i te 24 haora, ka waea atu he tangata ki a koe ki te whakaoti i te uiui kēhi i runga waea. Te whakamahi i te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga Kua kore te whakaritenga ki te matawai, kia whakaaturia rānei e tētahi pakihi te pānui waehere QR, te tiaki pūkete ā-ture rānei. Engari, ka taea e koe te whakamahi tonu te taupānga NZ Tracer kia mau ai he whakaaturanga o ō haerenga, te whiwhi rānei i ngā pānui Hono Iarere. Mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pānui karaka ki tō taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pānui, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu kei te pānui. He kirimuna ngā pānui Hono Iarere. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pānui, kāore koe e mōhio nā wai i tuku te pānui ki a koe, i hea koe e pā ana ki te tangata mate. Mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, kei a koe te tikanga ki te tukuatu i ō raraunga Hono Iarere ki te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga. Last updated: 8 April 2022 at 12:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Mā te tuari i ngā taipitopito mō ngā wāhi i haere koe kia tere ai te tautuhi i ngā wāhi tino mōrea me whiwhi tautoko pea hei tiaki i te hunga e tino mōrea ana i tō tātau hapori. Mā te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e koe te tuari: Ina kitea kei te pāngia koe e tētahi whakamātautau PCR kei te mate koe, kua tukuna atu rānei e koe tō otinga RAT e whakaatu ana kua pāngia koe, ka tukuna he hono ki a koe me te uru ki te waehere mā te patowaea mai i te tau 2328 hei whakakī i tēnei puka. He tata ki te 30 meneti te roa mō te whakakī i tēnei puka. Mēnā kei te raru tō whakakī i tēnei puka, īmēra atu ki help@tracingform.min.health.nz waea atu rānei ki 0800 555 728 . He haumaru te rokiroki a Te Manatū Hauora i ēnei mōhiohio. Ka whakamahia anake mō te whaiwhai i te pātanga me te tautuhi i ngā tautoko hauora tāpiri ka hiahia pea koe. Ka tuarihia anake ngā mōhiohio ki ngā tari kei te āwhina me ēnei mahi. Pānuitia te tauākī tūmataitinga (external link) o te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19. Ina tīmataria e koe tēnei tukanga, me whakaoti e koe tēnei puka i te nōhanga kotahi mā te pūrere kotahi me te pūtirotiro kia kore ai e ngaro ngā raraunga kua tāurua kētia. Last updated: 8 April 2022 at 12:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. Last updated: 8 April 2022 at 12:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero mō te rapu whakamātautau, ngā momo whakamātautau e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa, ā, me ngā wāhi e taea ana he whakamātautau. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. Tērā pea me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei, mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana, mēnā e hāereere ana koe, mēnā rānei e herea ana koe e tō tūranga mahi kia whakamātauria. Ngā āhuatanga mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka uru ki tēnei te whiwhi i ō hua, te whaiwhai pānga, me aha koe, ā, me te tautoko ka whiwhi koe. Last updated: 25 February 2022 at 12:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] Ko te tikanga, he kore utu ngā whakamātautau Kowheori-19 mā te katoa — ehara i te mea me kirirarau koe o Aotearoa, kainoho rānei, ā, e kore koe e utu mō ngā whakamaimoatanga ina pāngia koe e te mate. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu mō te whakamātautau ki te kuhu ki tētahi atu whenua, mō ngā take whakamātautau tūtei e te rāngai pakihi, otirā kei waho tēnei i ngā here o te ture. He kore utu te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 mēnā he wāhanga o te urupare hauora tūmatanui. Ka uru ki tēnei mēnā: E whakaaetia ana tō wehe i te kāinga ki te rapu whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga. Ka whakarārangihia e Healthpoint ngā pokapū whakamātautau mā te rohe. Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tētahi wāhi tūtata ki a koe i runga i te mahere. Rapua he pokapū whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) He mahi māmā noa te tono RAT hei whakamahinga i te kāinga, otirā he tukanga raupapa. Ka taea e koe te tono RAT mā ētahi atu.Me whai wāhi koe ki tētahi waea pūkoro ki te hāpono i tō tono. Ka tukua he nama tono ki a koe. Kātahi ka āhei koe te kohi i tō tono RAT i tētahi wāhi e rārangi mai ana i Healthpoint, mā tētahi atu rānei e kohi. He whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 pea ā tō tākuta. Waea atu ki te pātai, ā, ka whai i ā rātou tohutohu. Ko ētahi take o te whiwhi whakamātautau mēnā: Ina whakaaro koe me whiwhi whakamātautau, waea atu a Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Rapu kōrero hei āwhea whiwhi whakamātautau ai Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i tētahi Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment) kia taea tonu te utu i a koe. Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (external link) I Aotearoa e toru ngā momo whakamātautau mō te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19: PCR, Hūware me te Ākipaturopi tere. Ko te PCR (nasopharyngeal rānei) ngā whakamātautau tika rawa, ā, ka taea i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori, ngā hōhipera me ngā pokapū hauora. Kei waenga i te 2-5 rā te roa. He pani ki te wāhanga whakamuri o te ihu me te korokoro. He āhua rite te rākau pani ki tētahi miro pūkohu iti engari he roa ake te rākau. E wātea ana ēnei whakamātautau ki ngā kaimahi rohenga whenua. Ka taea te kohi ā-whaiaro i ngā tīpakohanga hūware me te whakataka atu ki tētahi wāhi kohinga, ka taea rānei te mahi i mua i tētahi kaimahi hauora. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. He nui ake te whakamahia o ēnei i te wā e nui ana ngā pānga. Last updated: 30 June 2022 at 2:52 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi RAT kore utu. Ka taea te kohi i ēnei mai i tētahi wāhi kohinga, mā tētahi atu rānei e kohi. Māu tonu e whakahaere i ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere, mā tētahi atu rānei. Me pūrongo i ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere (RAT) mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe, kāore rānei. Ka taea tēnei mā te ipurangi mā My Covid Record, mā te waea rānei i te waea āwhina. Last updated: 2 April 2022 at 4:18 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. E rua ngā huarahi mō te tono Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere: E tono ai koe mā te pae tukutuku, me āhei koe ki tētahi waea kawe hei whakaū i te tono. Ka taea te tono RAT mā tētahi atu. Me mahi māmā noa te tono RAT i te pae tukutuku, me whai noa i ngā tohutohu: Ka taea te tiki i ngā maruhā ā-rongoā kore utu i te wā ka kohi koe i ō RAT mai i ngā wāhi whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whakaatu tohumate KOWHEORI-19 koe. Mēnā he nui ake tō mōrearea pānga ki te mate, ka taea ngā momo maruhā P2/N95 kore utu. Me tuku tono tonu koe mā te paetukutuku Tono takai RAT KOWHEORI-19 kore utu. Mēnā kei tētahi wāhi tuawhenua koe e noho ana, he āhuatanga whakatapoko motuhake rānei āu, waea ki 0800 222 478 ka pēhi i te pātene 3 ki te kōrero i ō whiringa. Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 11:12 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [PDF, 559 KB] Ka rerekē te āhua o ngā tohutohu whakamātautau i runga anō i te āhua o te momo. Whāia ai e ngā kete whakamātautau ākipaturopi ngā tohutohu i raro nei, engari kaua te katoa. Tēnā whāia ngā tohutohu a te kaihanga . Wātea ai ngā hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere i te 20 mineti. E tohu ana tētahi rārangi i te taha o te C, kāore he mate Ina whiwhi koe i te hua whakamātautau kāore he mate, ā, kāore ō tohumate, kua mutu te wāhanga ki a koe. E tohu ana ngā rārangi e rua, i te taha o te C me te T, e pāngia ana koe e te mate. Mēnā kāore he rārangi i te taha o te C, e tohu ana tērā he muhu te whakamātautau. Mēnā he muhu tētahi hua, me whakamātau anō. Me pūrongo koe i tō hua. Ka taea tēnei i runga i My Covid Record. Takiuru ki mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) waea atu rānei ki 0800 222 478 ka pēhi i te kōwhiringa 3. Mēnā kei roto koe i tētahi kaupapa Close Contact Exemption Scheme, me whakamōhio koe i tō kaituku mahi ki tō hua. Last updated: 20 April 2022 at 3:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ehara i te mea me whakamā mēnā ka whakaatu te whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe - ka pā tēnei ki ngā tāngata katoa. Kāore he aha ki te KOWHEORI-19 ko wai ka whakapokea. Ki te pāngia koe, me noho taratahi i te kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi rānei, māna, he rerekē ngā tohutohu a tētahi kaiwhakahaere tiakanga. Me pupuri hoki koe i tō waea, ā, me whakautu hoki. Mēnā ka tohu ake he whakamātautau PCR kei te pāngia koe, ka whakamōhiotia koe ki tō hua mai i te nama ōkawa 2328. Kei roto tētahi hononga ki tētahi puka tuihono hei whakakī māhau. Ka āhua 10 ki te 20 mineti te roa ki te whakakī i te puka me te tono i ō mōhiohio hauora, ō pānga ā-kāinga, me ngā wāhi mōrearea nui i tae atu ai pea koe. Mēnā ka tohu ake he whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe, me tuku i tō hua ki My Covid Record. Mēnā e hiahia āwhina ana koe me waea i te 0800 222 478 . Mēnā e whiwhi ana koe i tētahi RAT e āta tirohia ana i tētahi pokapū whakamātautau hapori, tētahi atu kaiwhakarato hauora rānei, mā ngā kaimahi e whakauru i tō hua ki te raraunga matatapu a Te Manatū Hauora me My Covid Record. Ka tukuna hoki ki a koe tētahi pātuhi mai i te nama ōkawa 2328, kei roto nei tētahi hononga ki tētahi puka tuihono mō ngā mōhiohio hauora, whaiwhai pānga hoki. Ehara i te mea me whakaū ngā RAT e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe ki tētahi whakamātautau PCR, māna he rerekē ngā tohutohu. Ka rerekē anō ngā tohutohu o ngā whakamātautau i runga anō i te āhua o te momo, ā, he mea nui tonu te whai i ngā tohutohu a te kaihanga. E wātea ana he mōhiohio anō, me ngā tohutohu o te whakahaere RAT, i te pae tukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi | Tere Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Takiuru me te pūrongo i ō hua | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) Me noho taratahi i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi whakamātautau e tohu ana kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka tīmata tō wā taratahi mai i te rā i tīmata ai ō tohumate, i te rā rānei ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hua whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe, mēnā kāore ō tohumate. Me noho taratahi hoki te hunga katoa kei te kāinga e noho ana. Ka wātea pea ētahi atu wāhi noho mēnā kāore e taea e koe te noho haumaru i te wāhi e noho ana koe. Ka taea e koe te tohu i tēnei mā te puka tuihono ka whakakīhia e koe. I muri i te wā noho taratahi, mēnā kua kore katoa ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ka taea e koe te puta i te noho taratahi.Ehara i te mea me whakamātau anō koe. Ko ō hoa noho kāinga me whai whakamātautau e tohu ana kāore i te pāngia e te mate, i ngā rā i mua o te putanga i te noho taratahi. Noho taratahi i te kāinga Mēnā e hiahia tohutohu hauora ana koe, tirohia ngā rauemi tuihono i te tuatahi. Ngā rauemi tuihono (external link) Ina kino haere ō tohumate, ka hiahia rānei koe i ētahi tiakanga hauora kōhukihuki, waea atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora tūtata, ki a Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ina kino haere tō whakangā, te tangata rānei e tiakina ana e koe, he mamae rānei te uma, e hemohemo haere ana, me tere te waea ki 111 . Ka rerekē pea ngā kaiwhakapā mō te tautoko ā-hauora puta noa i te motu. Ko tō kaiwhakapā ko tētahi tangata takitahi pea, ko tētahi rōpū nō tō whare tākuta, tō kaiwhakarato hauora matua, tō ratonga hauora ā-hapori rānei. Te tautoko hauora i tō rohe - COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Mēnā ka hiahia rongoā koe, whakapā atu ki tō tākuta, tō kēmehi pātata rānei kia tukuna haumarutia ai ō rongoā ki tō kāinga. Ko te hunga e noho ana i tō taha, ka kīia he Pānga ā-Kāinga. Ahakoa kua whiwhi kano ārai mate, karekau rānei, me: Mēnā e tohu ana ngā whakamātautau a ngā Pānga ā-Kāinga kāore i te pāngia, ā, kāore hoki he tohumate, ka taea e rātou te whakaoti i te wā noho taratahi i te wā ōrite ki a koe. Ina tohua ake tō whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me whakakī koe i tētahi puka tuihono mō te whaiwhai pānga me ngā mōhiohio hauora. Mēnā he nama waea kawe whaimana tāu, ka whiwhi pātuhi koe me te hononga me te waehere whakauru, e oti ai tēnei puka. Mēnā kāore ō waea kawe, e hiahia ana rānei koe i te āwhina ki te whakakī i te puka, waea ki 0800 555 728 . Mā te puka whaiwhai pānga KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei koe ki te tiri haumaru: Ka hono hoki ki tētahi tono āwhina oranga ki Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora, me ētahi atu wāhi noho mēnā kāore i te haumaru tō noho i tō kāinga ake. Mā tēnei puka, ka tiri koe i tō rātaka Nz Covid Tracer, me ngā raraunga Hono Iarere. He tere ake te whakaoti i te puka, i te mahi i runga i te waea - tata ki te 20 meneti noa iho. Kia whiwhi i a koe te pātuhi, ka taea e koe te tīmata i roto i te 72 hāora. Ki te kore koe e tuku i te puka i roto i te 72 hāora, ka waea pea tētahi tangata me te whakaoti i te uiui kēhi i runga i te waea. Puka whaiwhai pānga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) Last updated: 14 March 2022 at 4:48 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei ōu, me whai whakamātautau. Mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio, mā tētahi mātanga hauora koe e whakamōhio ake. Mēnā kāore ō tohumate, me whiwhi noa koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā kua tohutohutia koe e tētahi āpiha hauora - hei tauira, mēnā he pānga ā-kāinga koe o tētahi i whakatauria ai kei te pāngia. Ngā tohumate COVID-19 E whiwhi ai koe i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, waea ki: Kimihia ngā wāhi whakamātautau Mēnā e noho ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau. E kore ngā pānga tata e mate ki te rapu whakamātautau, māna ka kitea he tohumate. Kāre koe e hiahiatia kia whiwhi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu i a koe e haere ana ki Aotearoa. Mēnā e haere ana koe i Aotearoa ki tētahi atu whenua, tirohia ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe mā te whakapā atu ki tō rātau kāinga māngai kāwanatanga, whare māngai kāwanatanga rānei i Aotearoa. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi whakawātanga Kōti neke atu i te 1 rā, ka tonoa pea koe ki te whakahaere i te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT), ki te whakaū rānei kua whakahaere koe i te RAT i ia ata i mua i te tīmata o te whakawākanga a te Kōti. Ka tonoa pea koe ki te whai i tēnei mahi mēnā he neke atu i te haurua rā te whakawākanga. Mā te kaiwhakawā e whakatau. Mēnā he roa ake te whakawātanga i te kotahi wiki, mai i te wiki tuarua me mahi pea koe i tētahi RAT hei te Mane, ā, kātahi i ia rā whakawākanga tuarua. Mā te kaiwhakawā e whakatau. Ngā tukanga KOWHEORI-19 ā-kōti | courtsofnz.govt.nz (external link) E herea ana ētahi tāngata ki te whiwhi i ngā whakamātautau auau nā te mōrearea e pā ana ki tō rātou tūranga mahi. Ka uru ki tēnei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 me te tūpono tuku haere i taua mate ki ētahi atu. Ngā mahi whakamātautau mā ngā kaimahi waiwai Last updated: 30 June 2022 at 2:57 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. I te Kākāriki, he whāiti te rere ā-hapori, ā, e rite ana tō tātou pūnaha hauora ki te urupare atu. I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Last updated: 8 April 2022 at 10:22 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. I te Kākāriki kāore he herenga mō te mau maruhā, te matawai, ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i ngā wāhi i rō whare, i waho rānei, ngā whakaritenga kano ārai (māna kua whakamanahia mō tō mahi), te hāereere rānei. Heoi anō, e tūtohua ana me ū tonu ki ngā ritenga hauora kia noho haumaru ai. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, me whakamātauria koe. Mēnā kua pāngia koe, me whai i ngā herenga hauora katoa, tae atu ki te noho taratahi. Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? [PDF, 108 KB] Te whakamātautau mō te KOWHEORI-19 Koinei te wā pai ki te whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19. Whakaritea tētahi mahere mā tō kāinga, pakihi rānei mō te tūpono ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea hoki te tikiake i tētahi Arowhai Takatū. Me whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19 Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tōu ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te tangata takitahi me ngā whānau Last updated: 23 May 2022 at 4:42 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. I te Karaka, tērā ētahi herenga hei tiaki i ō tātou hapori. Ka taea tonu e koe ngā mahi o ia rā, pēnei i: Kāore he tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i rō whare, i waho hoki i te Karaka. Ko te mau maruhā tonu tētahi āhuatanga matua i te Karaka. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tautuhinga Karaka i te reo Ingarihi Ko te tikanga pai, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare. Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata hauā, raruraru hauora rānei, te mau maruhā.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Ka taea e koe te whakahaere, te haere rānei ki tētahi huihuinga i te Karaka, hei tauira, te tūtakitaki hoa, te whakahaere mārena, te haere ki te karakia. Kāore he tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i rō whare, i waho hoki i te Karaka. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā taiao manaaki, hokohoko, mātauranga me ngā wāhi mahi. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Karaka. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi rohe e rerekē ana ngā whakaritenga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e ngaro atu ana koe i te kāinga, me noho taratahi i taua wāhi e noho nā koe. Me whakarite koe i tētahi mahere ina tūpono noa tēnei āhuatanga. Māu tonu e utu i tō noho ki te noho taratahi i a koe e hāereere ana. E herea ana te mau maruhā i runga i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui katoa, i ngā ratonga waka tiri hoki, māna, ka taea e koe te noho i waho (hei tauira, te rahoraho o te kaipuke). Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tōu ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te tangata takitahi me ngā whānau Last updated: 8 April 2022 at 10:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. I te Whero, tērā ētahi herenga hei tiaki i ō tātou hapori. Ka taea tonu e koe ngā mahi o ia rā, pēnei i: Tērā ētahi tepenga mō te maha o te tangata mō ētahi kaupapa kei rō whare. I pēnei ai nā te mea e mōhio ana mātou he tere hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 i rō whare. Ko te mau maruhā tonu tētahi āhuatanga matua i te Whero. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tautuhinga Whero i te reo Ingarihi Hei ture ahuwhānui, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare.Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama e toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, ka kore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Whero. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi rohe e rerekē ana ngā whakaritenga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e ngaro atu ana koe i te kāinga, me noho taratahi i taua wāhi e noho nā koe. Me whakarite koe i tētahi mahere ina tūpono noa tēnei āhuatanga. Māu tonu e utu i tō noho ki te noho taratahi i a koe e hāereere ana. E herea ana te mau maruhā i runga i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui katoa, i ngā ratonga waka tiri hoki, māna, ka taea e koe te noho i waho (hei tauira, te rahoraho o te kaipuke). Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tō ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau Last updated: 8 April 2022 at 11:17 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru Me aha koe mēnā kei te whakarite koe ki te wehe i Aotearoa. E āta huaki mai ana ngā roherohenga o Aotearoa puta noa i te 2022. Kimi kōrero me aha koe ina hua ake he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e haere ana ki Aotearoa. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. I tō taenga mai ki Aotearoa, me whakakī i ngā herenga whakamātautau katoa mā ngā whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) kei tō pūhera taenga. I raro ka kite koe me aha koe ina hua ake he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i muri i te wā o te 'whakamātautau i te taenga mai' (hei te Rā 7 i muri i tō taenga mai). Mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu, ka taea e koe te tono RAT kore utu i te ipurangi, me te kohi i tētahi wāhi kohinga Tono i tētahi RAT kore utu (external link) Kimihia he wāhi kohinga Whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 tūtata ki a koe | Healthpoint (external link) Ki te kore ō tohumate engari kei te hiahia ki tētahi RAT, ka taea e koe te hoko i āu ake whakamātautau mai i tētahi toa hoko, pērā i ngā toa, ngā kēmehi ngā hokomaha rānei. Me pēhea te whakamahi i te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere Ina tohu ana te whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe waea ki 0800 222 478 ki te pūrongo i tō hua RAT e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe. Mēnā he nama waea kawe hāpono tāu, mā Te Manatū Hauora e tuku i tētahi pātuhi ki a koe i ngā nama ōkawa o 2328, 2648 rānei ki te whakaū i tō hua kei te pāngia koe. Mā te pātuhi e whakarato mōhiohio mō te noho taratahi i te kāinga me tētahi waehere whakauru mō te puka whaiwhai pānga tuihono. Me here koe ki tētahi pokapū whakamātautau, ki te whiwhi whakamātautau PCR i muri i tō hua RAT kei te pāngia koe. Ka īmēratia atu he puka ki a koe e taea ana e koe te tā, te whakaatu rānei he kape matihiko i te pokapū whakamātautau. Kimihia he pokapū whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 tūtata ki a koe | Healthpoint (external link) Me noho taratahi ā-kāinga koe mō te 7 rā i a koe e whakamātūtū ana. Ka tīmata tō 7 rā mai i te rā i kitea ngā tohumate, te rā rānei i kitea kei te pāngia koe e te mate (ko te mea tuatahi ō ērā). Ki te kore koe e whai i tēnei, tērā pea ka whainatia koe. Me noho taratahi ā-kāinga i te wā e noho ana koe, me kimi wāhi kē atu rānei. Tirohia mēnā ka taea e koe te whakatōroa i tō tāpuitanga, kia rite rānei ki te kimi wāhi kē atu. Ko te tikanga māhau e utu i ngā utu tāpiri o te whakatōroa i tō noho, te whakarite nōhanga kē rānei. Tirohia tō kaupapahere inihua hāereere ki te tiro mēnā ka kapi koe. Ko te hunga e noho ana i tō taha, e haere ana i tō taha, me noho taratahi mō te 7 rā. Ka uru ki tēnei te hunga e noho ana i tō rūma hōtēra, mōtēra, tēneti, wēne, kāinga hararei rānei, arā, tō 'mirumiru' hāereere. Kāore te hunga e noho tahi ana i ō whare noho e mate ki te noho taratahi, māna, kei roto rātou i tō 'mirumiru' hāereere. Ki te kore e taea e koe te noho tonu i tō wāhi noho, me rapu wāhi kē atu koe. Tērā pea ko ngā nōhanga taratahi, ko ngā mōtēra, hōtēra, wēne rānei. Ko ngā ture: Kāore e taea e koe: Ka taea te haere mā runga waka kawe tūmataiti ki tō wāhi noho kē atu. Tērā pea ko tōu waka ake, ka taea te rēti waka mēnā ka taea tēnei mā te pūnaha utu, kohi pānga kore hoki. Whakapā atu ki tō kamupene rererangi, kaiwhakahaere tāpoi rānei ki te whakarite anō i tō haerenga, i ngā mahi rānei. Kia mōhio, kāore he herenga ā-ture i runga i te kaiwhakarato ki te whakahoki i ō pūtea, te whakarite anō rānei i ō kaupapa haere. I te wā e noho taratahi ana: I te wā e noho taratahi ana, kaua e : Ka taea e koe te wehe atu i tō wāhi noho engari me mau maruhā i ngā wā katoa ki te: Whakamōhiotia atu te hunga kei tō kāinga, tō wāhi noho, te hunga i noho tahi atu ai koe, me ētahi atu pānga tata kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Me pēhea te whakamōhio atu i te iwi kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) Whakakīhia te puka whaiwhai pānga tuihono a Te Manatū Hauora mā te waehere whakauru 6 mati ka whiwhi koe mā te pātuhi mai i ngā nama ōkawa 2328, 2648 rānei. Ka āhua 5 ki te 10 mineti te roa. Whakakīhia te puka whaiwhai pānga | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā kei te hiahia kai, utauta waiwai rānei i a koe e noho taratahi ana, tēnā pātai ki tō whānau, ō hoa rānei ki te kawe i ēnei ki a koe.Ka taea e koe te tono utauta mā te ipurangi, me te whakarite i te kawenga pānga kore. Mēnā kei te hiahia tohutohu hauora me pēhea te whakaora i ō tohumate, mēnā rānei e kino haere ana ngā tohumate, waea ki Healthline. Ka taea e koe te tono i ngā ratonga whakamāori. Me utu pea koe i te maimoatanga hauora. E akiaki ana mātou i ngā manuhiri ki te hoko i te inihua hāereere hora whānui i mua o te haerenga. Mēnā he kirirarau koe o Ahitereiria, Kainoho Tūturu rānei, he kirararau rānei o Piritānia, tērā tētahi whakaaetanga hauora tauutuutu, ko te tikanga o tērā ka utu koe i ngā utunga ka utua e ngā tāngata o Aotearoa mō te hauora. Whakaarotia te whakapā atu ki tō Pā Whakahanga, tō Māngai, tō Kōmihana rānei ki te uru koe ki te hōhipera, ki te hiahia āwhina ā-māngai rānei. Rārangi o ngā pā whakahanga o tāwāhi i Aotearoa | Manatū Aorere (external link) Ki te hiahia āwhina hauora kōhukihuki, me wawe te waea ki 111 . Whāki atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i tō waeatanga. Ka uru pea ki tēnei mēnā e pāngia hoki koe, tētahi rānei e tiakina ana e koe: Mēnā e māuiui tonu ana koe, me noho ki tō wāhi noho, kia 24 hāora i muri i te korenga o ō tohumate. Ehara i te mea me tatari koe mō tētahi karere whaimana e wehe ai koe i te noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whakamātautau koe - ka hua mai pea he hua kei te pāngia koe, engari ehara i te mea ka whakapoke koe i ētahi atu. Ka taea e ō pānga ā-kainga, me ngā mema o tō 'mirumiru haere' te whakaoti i te noho taratahi i te wā ōrite ki a koe, engari me tohu ake te whakamātautau Rā 7 kāore i te pāngia, ā, kāore he tohumate hou, kino haere rānei. Mēnā e tohu ana kei te pāngia tonutia, me tīmata anō te noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te 7 rā. I muri i tō whakaoranga i te KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua puta i te noho taratahi, tērā ētahi āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, hei whakaarotanga māhau i a koe e whakamātūtū ana. I muri i tō pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 Tirohia mēnā ka herea koe ki te whakaatu i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e tohu ana kāore i te pāngia, he tiwhikete hauora rānei e whakaū ana kua whakamātūtū koe i mua i tō haerenga. Mēnā kātahi anō ka ora mai koe i te KOWHEORI-19, ka whakaatu pea tō whakamātautau i te hua e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe. Ki te puta he hua e tohu ana kāore koe i te pāngia engari he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu, me noho ki te kāinga, ka whakahaere i tētahi atu RAT e 48 hāora i muri mai. Ina kino haere ō tohumate, waea ki Healthline i: Ka taea e te tangata kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 te whiwhi hua RAT e tohu ana kāore i te pāngia. Ka pēnei nā te mea kāore i nui te huaketo i taua tīpakohanga, i te mea rānei kāore i tika te whakahaeretanga o te whakamātautau. Last updated: 20 July 2022 at 10:09 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi e whakahau ana mātau kia tirotirohia e koe ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe. Me tirotiro: Ko te whakarite a te maha o ngā whenua me noho taratahi te hunga haere i te taenga atu, me whakaatu tohu o te werohanga, he tohu rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e whakaatu ana kāore koe i te mate i mua i te haerenga. Rēhita me SafeTravel. Mēnā ka rēhita koe, ka whiwhi whakamōhiotanga koe mō ngā huringa ki ngā tohutohu haerenga. Rēhitatia ō taipitopito ki a SafeTravel (external link) Kua āhei ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau kua whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa ki te tono ki tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. He 1-2 meneti te roa mō te tono i tō tiwhikete, ā, ka īmērahia atu koe i roto i te 24 haora. Ka taea e koe te tiki tō Tiwhikete mā Taku Pūkete Kowheori. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te uru ki tēnei ratonga, waea atu ki 0800 222 478 . Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E herea ana e ētahi whenua kia whakaaturia he otinga whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 kāore koe i te mate i mua i tō wehenga. Tirohia ngā whakaritenga o te whenua e haere ana koe mā te whakapā atu ki tō rātau kāinga māngai kāwanatanga, whare māngai kāwanatanga rānei i Aotearoa. Ētahi atu tohutohu haerenga atu anō kei Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Last updated: 15 February 2022 at 3:36 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. I ngā tautuhinga pūnaha rama toru katoa, ka taea e koe te hāereere ki ngā wāhi katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te take. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tētahi wāhi e rerekē ana te tautuhinga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā ture mō taua wāhi. Hei tauira, mēnā ka haere koe mai i te Karaka ki Whero, me whai koe i ngā ture mō tētahi rohe Whero. Ko te tikanga, e kore koe e mate ki te kawe i tētahi Tohu Ārai Mate, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei ki te hāereere. Tērā pea ka hiahia ētahi umanga kawe tangata(hei tauira, ngā rererangi, ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa) kia whakaatu koe i te Tohu Ārai Mate, i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 pānga kore rānei. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi Tohu Ārai Mate koe, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei i te wā e haere ana mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui. Me kaua e haere mēnā kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi, e tatari ana rānei mō ngā hua o tētahi whakamātautau. Mō ngā rama toru My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ngā whakamātautau I mua i tō haerenga, me whakarite me aha koe mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e haere ana. Me uru ki tō mahere Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ina māuiuitia koe, ka whakaraerae rānei koe ki te KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e ngaro ana i te kāinga, me: Ki te tohu ake tō whakamātautau e pāngia ana koe, ka whakapā atu tētahi mātanga hauora ki a koe. Ka taea e koe te kōrerorero i ngā āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, ā, mēnā he haumaru anō mōu ki te hoki ki te kāinga. E kore e taea e koe te hoki mā te rererangi, te hautū waka ki tawhiti mehemea me moe mō te pō, me haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui rānei. Ka taea anake e koe te hoki ki te kāinga ki te noho taratahi mēnā e haumaru ana taua mahi. Kia mahara ake ki te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi i tae koe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, me tū tīrara. Ina kore e taea e koe te hoki haumaru atu ki te kāinga, me noho tonu koe i te wāhi kei konā koe.Ka wātea tonu ki a koe te tautoko ki te noho taratahi, hei wāhi o te hōtaka Care in the Community. Me whakamōhio koe i te kaipupuri/kaiwhakahaere o tō wāhi noho mēnā he pānga tata koe o tētahi kēhi, mēnā rānei koe i whakahoki i tētahi whakamātautau e tohu ana kua pāngia koe. He aha ngā tūmanakohanga i a koe e noho taratahi ana I a koe e hāereere ana, me mau ārai kanohi koe: E whakatenatenahia ana hoki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā ka wehe koe i te kāinga. Kua whakaturehia te mau ārai kanohi hoki i ētahi wāhi, i runga anō i ētahi o ngā tautuhinga rama toru. Me mātua mōhio koe ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i tō haerenga. Hei aukati te horapatanga anamata o te KOWHEORI-19, me whaiwhai i ngā pānga o te hunga whakaraerae ki te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka wāwāhi i te hono o te rerenga. Mā te kapo ake i ngā nekenekehanga o te tangata tātou e āwhina ki te mahi wawe, mahi whāomo i tēnei. Me whaiwhai i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te tikiake i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i te App Store (external link) , i Google Play (external link) rānei, mā te whakamahi rānei i tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer. Tīkina ake tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] Rapua ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki te whaiwhai pānga Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Last updated: 25 January 2022 at 9:44 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. E haere ai koe ki Aotearoa, me tutuki i a koe ētahi herenga. Ko ngā hipanga i raro nei e whakamārama ana he aha ngā taunakitanga hei whakaatu māhau, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. Kua kore e hiahiatia tētahi whakamātautau i mua o te haerenga, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. He tere te panoni o ngā tautuhinga - mā Immigration New Zealand e tuku i ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Te haere ki Aotearoa | Immigration New Zealand (external link) Ka taea e ngā kirirarau o Aotearoa me ētahi atu tāngata e māraurau ana te kuhu mai ki Aotearoa, ā, me te whakamātautau anō i a koe i tō taenga mai. Ki te tiro mēnā e māraurau ana koe, haere ki te pae tukutuku a Immigration New Zealand. Ko te nuinga o ngā tāngata haere ki Aotearoa me whiwhi i ngā pota katoa o tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia, ahakoa tērā ētahi aweretanga. I mua i te haere, me tiro kei te mana tonu tō uruwhenua. Tērā pea me tono koe i tētahi New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Tirohia mēnā e māraurau ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Ngā herenga kano ārai mate me ngā kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia Me tono i tētahi NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Tāpuitia tō haerenga ki Aotearoa. Tirohia te kaupapahere a te kaikawe mō te kano ārai mate, ngā whakakorenga me ngā whakahokinga moni, hua noa kei mate koe ki te panoni i ō maheretanga. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te hoko i te inihua haere, hua noa kei pāngia ō whakaritenga hāereere. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te tāpui i te wāhi noho hāngai mō te noho taratahi i te kāinga, ina hua ake tērā āhuatanga. Me whakaoti ngā tāngata haere katoa, i tētahi Whakapuakanga Hāereere o Aotearoa i mua i te haere ki Aotearoa. Kia oti ana, ka tukuna ki a koe tētahi Traveller Pass. Kia wawe tonu te whakarite i tō whakapuakanga. Ka taea e koe te whakakī haere i te 28 rā i mua i tō haerenga. Tīmataria tō whakapuakanga hāereere (external link) Rau mōhiohio whakapuakanga tangata haere (external link) E oti ai tō whakapuakanga haere, me whakarato koe i: Tirohia anō ngā taipitopito kua tāurua e koe ki te whakapuakanga hāereere ki te whakarite mēnā e rite ana ki ō tuhinga ōkawa. Me whakaatu koe i tō Traveller Pass ina taki-mai koe ki te taunga rererangi, ā, me whakaatu hoki ki Te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa. Ka taea te tā, te roki rānei ki tō pūrere kawe. Me kawe tonu koe i ngā pepa hāngai kua oti i a koe te tuku ake ki te Whakapuakanga Hāereere o Aotearoa. Aratohu ki te tuku ake i ō taunakitanga (external link) Mēnā e hāngai ana, me whiwhi koe i tō: Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i mua i tō rerenga, mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 rānei pēnei i te Ihu Pāwera, ka pātai pea ngā kaimahi rererangi mēnā he tohumate ōu. ki te pātaitia koe, me whakaatu: Mā te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa e manatoko i tō hītori hāereere, tō tūnga kano ārai mate, tō Whakapuakanga Hāereere, me ētahi atu herenga uru mai. Ka āhua roa pea te wā, i a koe e whakawhiti ana mā roto i te taunga rererangi. I te Haumaru koiora, ka tukuna ki a koe tētahi pūhera whakatau. Kei roto i tō pūhera whakatau: Whakaotihia ō whakamātautau, ā, ka tuku atu i ō hua, i runga anō i ngā tohu. Ngā whakaritenga whakamātautau i muri i te taenga ki Aotearoa Last updated: 30 June 2022 at 2:53 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate Rapu me pēhea te whiwhi taunakitanga o ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa i te wā e whakawhiti ana ki tāwāhi Rapua he kōrero mō te tuku kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti hei ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19 E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti o ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei āhea whiwhi i tētahi, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi. Rapua ngā wāhi e taea ai e koe ngā mōhiohio pono mō te KOWHEORI-19 Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 16 tau, e māraurau ana koe ki te pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, ka taea e koe te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i ō pota matua. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea he whakature ngā pota āpiti, ā, kāore e hiahiatia ana e riro ai i a koe he Tohu Ārai Mate. Ki te whiwhi koe i tētahi pota āpiti, ka tāpiritia atu ki My Covid Record, ā, ka taea e koe te hanga i tētahi atu Tohu. Mēnā kua pāngia kētia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 me tatari mō te toru marama i muri i te rā o tō whakamātautau e tohu aha kei te pāngia koe, i mua i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i tētahi pota āpiti mā te: Book My Vaccine (external link) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa mō ngā pota āpiti, ahakoa i whiwhi koe i tētahi kano ārai mate rerekē i āu pota i mua. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer E wātea ana te pota āpiti AstraZeneca ināianei i te toru marama i muri i te pota tuarua, engari me whai tūtohu rongoā. Ka taea e koe te whai tūtohu rongoā i tō tākuta mariu i mua i tō toronga, mai i tētahi whare haumanu kano ārai mate AstraZeneca rānei - engari kāore e taea e ngā whare haumanu katoa te tuku i tētahi tūtohu rongoā. He koreutu te toro atu ki te tākuta mō tētahi tūtohu rongoā pota āpiti AstraZeneca. Te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca Ahakoa he pai tonu te tiaki a ngā potanga e rua mai i tētahi mate kino o ngā momo KOWHEORI-19 Delta me te Omicron mō tētahi wā, ko te tikanga he kaha ake te tiaki a te pota āpiti i a koe. E whakaatu ana ngā whakaaturanga onāianei i tō kaha ārai mai i te whakapokenga i te hekenga haeretanga o te kano ārai mate matua i roto i te wā. Ka āwhina te whiwhi kano ārai mate ‘tāpiri’ i muri i tētahi potanga matua hei āwhina ki te whakakaha i tō ārai mate mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko tā te pota āpiti he whakaheke i tō tūpono pānga ki te mate taumaha i te KOWHEORI-19, o te uru rānei ki te hōhipera. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te pota matua i tāwāhi, ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri mai i tō werohanga whakamutunga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota whakamutunga kua whiwhi koe. E whakahautia ana he pota matua tuatoru mā te hunga awhikiri pahara. He rerekē tēnei i te pota āpiti. Ko te hunga e māraurau ana ki te pota matua tuatoru, ka āhei hoki ki te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i te werohanga pota matua tuatoru mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau. Mēnā he pakeke ake i te 16, te 17 tau rānei ka taea tētahi pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i te pota matua tuatoru. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te pota matua tuatoru mēnā he awhikiri pahara tōu (external link) He ōrite ngā pānga kino o ngā pota āpiti ki ērā o ngā pota matua o te kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko te mamae, te whero o te kiri, te kōpuku, i te wāhi wero, te ānini, te paipairuaki me te ngenge, ruha rānei. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā pānga kino (external link) Last updated: 4 May 2022 at 9:17 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko te kano ārai mate matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Engari e wātea ana te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Astra Zeneca ki te katoa kei tua i te 18 tau te pakeke e hiahia ana i tētahi whiringa kē, kāore rānei e āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer. He kano ārai mate kawe huaketo (viral vector). Kāore he huaketo SARS-CoV-2 i roto i te kano ārai mate, nō reira e kore koe e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 i tēnei kano ārai mate. Me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca Me tatari koe mō te whā wiki, neke atu rānei, e āhei ai koe ki tō pota tuarua. Me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate e pai ake ai tō whakamarutanga. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . Ka whakaatu ake a Book My Vaccine i tētahi rārangi ingoa o ngā pokapū kano ārai mate e wātea ana te AstraZeneca. Me kaua koe e whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca mēnā: Ka werohia te kano AstraZeneca ki roto i tētahi uaua (i te wāhanga whakarunga o te ringa). Ka taea te werohanga tuarua te tuku i waenga i te 4 ki te 12 wiki i muri i te werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te AstraZeneca mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Ka māraurau koe mō te pota āpiti, e 3 marama i muri i tō whiwhi i te pota tuarua. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He iti rawa ngā raraunga o te whakamahinga o te AstraZeneca e te hunga e hapū ana, nō reira ka noho ko Pfizer tonu te kōwhiringa mariunga o te kano ārai mate mō tēnei hunga. Mēnā kei te hāpu, kei te whāngote rānei koe, e whakaaro ana rānei e hapū ana koe, tēnā kōrero ki tō tākuta mēnā ko AstraZeneca te kano ārai mate e tika ana mōu. Ka whakahoi te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i te pūnaha awhikiri o te tinana. Mā tēnei ka whakaputa paturopi te tinana hei āwhina ki te whawhai i te huaketo. Ka āwhina tēnei ki te whakamaru i a koe i te KOWHEORI-19 i te anamata. E kore e hua mai te KOWHEORI-19 i ngā kaiwhakaranu o tēnei kano ārai mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, he 81% te parenga a te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaatu ana hoki i te whaihuatanga 80%, piki atu rānei, mai i te urunga ki te hōhipera i muri i te pota tuatahi. Mō te parenga tino pai rawa atu, me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua. Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua āta aromatawaitia te haumarutanga o te AstraZeneca e Medsafe. Kāore i pokanoa te tuku whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te pota tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. He pānga kino tino mokorea ngā tepetoto o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. I pā ki te kotahi o ia 100,000 tāngata kua whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: Kua rīpoatatia ētahi kēhi tino mokorea o te Mate Ia-Tōiti Papī (CLS). Ko ngā tohumate o tēnei mate ko te pupuhitanga wawe o ngā ringa me ngā waewae, te taumahatanga ohorere me te pōātinitini. Kua rīpoatatia hoki ngā kēhi tino mokorea o te mate Guillain-Barré (GBS). Ko te GBS he mate awhikiri mokorea, e pā ai te mate mumura ioio. Ko ētahi pea o ngā tohumate ko te mamae, te matangerengere, te ruha o ngā uaua o ngā ringa me ngā waewae, ā, tērā pea ka ahu atu ki te uma me te kanohi. Ina pā ētahi o ēnei tohumate ki a koe, me wawe te haere ki te tākuta. Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Te aromatawai me te whakamana i ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Ngā pānga kino me ngā tauhohenga o ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca | Pokapū Tohutohu Awhikiri (external link) Ngā mōhiotanga rūkahu me ngā tāware Last updated: 4 February 2022 at 11:31 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ka hangaia e Pfizer-BioNTech. E mōhiotia ana hoki e tōna ingoa whaitohu, a Comirnaty. He kano ārai mate pūtake mRNA (waikawa tuipūmua karere). kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto. Kāore e pāngia tō DNA, ō ira rānei. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa pakeke ake i te 5 tau. He momo kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mā ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau te pakeke, otirā he iti iho te pota, he iti iho hoki te rahinga. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā kano ārai mate mā te hunga 5-11 tau te pakeke Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . Ka werohia koe e tētahi kaituku kano ārai mate tautōhito ki te kano ārai mate i te wāhanga o runga o tō ringa. Ka taea te werohanga tuarua i muri i te toru wiki i te iti rawa o tō werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te Pfizer mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, ka taea e koe te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i ō pota matua. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka tukuna e te kano ārai mate Pfizer he huinga tohutohu hei whakaako i tō tinana me pēhea te whawhai i te huaketo KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka ako tō tinana ki te āhua o te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me te whakamahi i ngā paturopi ki te whawhai atu. Ko tā te paturopi mahi he ārai atu i te huaketo kia kore e pokea ō pūtau, ā, ka āwhina ki te patu i a ia. Ina pā koe ki te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 hei te wā e tū mai nei, kei tō tinana ngā utauta tika ki te ārai i a ia anō, kia iti iho tō tūpono pāngia e te mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate Kowheori-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. E mōhio ana mātou ki te pai o te mahi a te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā te mea i tutuki ngā hia marama o ngā whakamātautau ā-haumanu ki te 40,000 tāngata i mua i tana whakamanatanga. I whakatauritehia e ngā whakamātautau haumanu ngā hua o tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano ārai mate ki tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano whakataruna (mehanga tote). I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i kitea he 95% te parenga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua tukua e Medsafe te whakaaetanga tārewa ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer (me ngā here) kia whakamahia i Aotearoa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua whakaaetia ōkawatia, engari me tuku tonu a Pfizer i ngā raraunga haere tonu me te pūrongo hoki hei whakaatu i tana whakatutuki i ngā paerewa o te ao. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi aroturuki a Medsafe i te haumarutanga me te whaihuatanga o te kano ārai mate i te wā e whakamahia ana. Ka arotakehia ngā raraunga mai i ngā whakamātautau haumanu haere tonu puta noa i te ao, me ngā pūrongo mai i ngā mātanga hauora me te hunga kua whiwhi kano ārai mate. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te pota tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. Ko te myocarditis te mumuratanga o te taha uaua manawa, ā, e mōhiotia ana hei pānga kino mokorea o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro me te tono i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, me te kite i ngā whakamātautau KOWHEORI kua whakahaeretia e koe. Ko te wāhitau paetukutuku ko mycovidrecord.health.nz Mā tēnei pae tukutuku ka taea e koe: Kua kore te Kāwanatanga e hiahia kia whiwhi koe i te My Vaccine Pass e uru ai koe ki ngā pakihi, ngā takahanga, ngā ratonga rānei. Ka taea tonu e te pakihi te kōwhiri kia whiwhi My Vaccine Pass te tangata i mua o te kuhunga mēnā he take hauora, haumaru hoki o te mau i tētahi. Engari ko ngā pakihi me ngā rōpū ka kōwhiri kia whiwhi koe i tētahi My Vaccine Pass hei tikanga whakauru, e kore e taea te aukati i te hunga kei raro i te 12 tau te kuhu atu ina kore he My Vaccine Pass. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Last updated: 4 May 2022 at 9:48 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapu me pēhea te whiwhi taunakitanga o ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa i te wā e whakawhiti ana ki tāwāhi Rapua he kōrero mō te whakamahi i te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record, te wāhi e taea ai e koe te whakauru atu ki ngā mōhiohio mō tō pūkete KOWHEORI-19. Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Rapu me pēhea te whakaatu i tō taunakitanga tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ina haere koe ki tāwāhi. He taupānga koreutu te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ka taea e ngā umanga, ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga te whakamahi hei matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai. Last updated: 18 February 2022 at 10:10 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, kua whiwhi i tētahi pota kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Ka whai ēnei tiwhikete i ngā paerewa Tiwhikete Matihiko KOWHEORI a te EU. He rerekē pea ngā herenga o ētahi atu whenua. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi tēnā tirohia ngā herenga o te whenua e haere atu nā koe. Me whai hoki koe i ngā tukanga manene noa mō te whenua e haere nā koe. Ka hiahiatia pea ētahi atu whāinga, pēnei i te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu, e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. He waehere QR kei tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere, ka matawaitia i te wā e hāereere ana koe. Kei roto ngā taipitopito o ngā werohanga ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whiwhi koe i Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te puri i tēnei tiwhikete ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mana tēnei tiwhikete mō te 12 marama. Me ōrite ngā taipitopito o tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere ki ō tō puka uruwhenua. Ka taea te tirotiro i ō taipitopito whaiaro i te wā e tono ana koe i te tiwhikete. He tere, māmā hoki te tono i tō tiwhikete. Ka īmēratia atu tō tiwhikete ki a koe i te 24 hāora. Ko te huarahi tere rawa e whiwhi ai koe i tō tiwhikete, mā te My Covid Record. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te rōpū o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Ka taea anake e koe te whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere mēnā i werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi, me tono koe i tētahi tiwhikete mai i taua whenua, e taea ai e koe te puta ki waho o Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki ō pota e rua i tāwāhi, e kore rawa koe e whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere i Aotearoa. Last updated: 20 January 2022 at 12:57 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ko te tauwāhi ko mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) , ā, ka mahi i runga i ngā rorohiko katoa, waea atamai rānei. He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro me te tono i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, me te kite i ngā whakamātautau KOWHEORI kua whakahaeretia e koe. Mā tēnei pae tukutuku ka taea e koe: Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau te whakauru atu ki My Covid Record: Kaua e toha i tō takiuru me tō kupuhipa My Covid Record ki tētahi atu. Ina kite koe i ētahi hapa i tō pūkete, ka taea e koe te whakakī i te puka tuihono e kīia nei ko Change of details form , te īmēra rānei ki help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Mēnā e raruraru ana tō tono i tētahi tiwhikete, pūkete rānei mō tētahi atu ka taea e koe te waea ki: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mēnā e raruraru ana tō tukuatu i tētahi whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere mō tētahi atu, ka taea e koe te waea ki: 0800 555 728 (8am ki te 8pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Last updated: 4 May 2022 at 9:42 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) Last updated: 20 April 2022 at 12:43 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ka taea te whakamahi i te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ki te hihira i te ūnga kano ārai mate o te tangata. Me whai ipurangi ki te tikiake i te taupānga i te tuatahi, me te matawai tuatahi hoki. Hei muri i tērā, ka taea e te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa te matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai me te kore hononga ki te ipurangi, engari me hono ki te ipurangi i ngā wā auau ki te whakarite e taea ai e ia te manatoko i ngā My Vaccine Passes e whaimana ana. Kāore e taea te whakamahi i te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa hei matawai i ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāreere. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero mō te My Vaccine Pass Tīkina ake te taupānga mā te App Store (external link) Tīkina ake te taupānga mā Google Play (external link) Ina tikiake koe i te taupānga, me te whakaae ki ngā ture whakamahi, me: E hiahiatia ana e te taupānga NZ Pass Verifier ngā whakaaetanga kāmera kia taea ai te matawai i ngā waehere QR My Vaccine Pass. Ka tono te taupānga i tēnei whakaaetanga ina tīmata koe ki te matawai. Hei matawai i tētahi kōkota, pāwhiri i te pātene ‘Scan’. Mā tēnei e whakaatu te mata matawai. Tohua tō waea ki te waehere QR i te kōkota kia uru ki te rohe heipū o tō mata. Ko te kōkota whaimana ka whakaatu i te ingoa me te rā whānau o te tangata (e whakaatu ana i runga i te Kōkota Kano Ārai) tae atu ki te tohu whakaae kākāriki me te kupu ‘valid’. Mēnā kāore te Kōkota Kano Ārai o Aotearoa e whaimana, mā te taupānga e kī ake he aha ai. Ākene pea nā te mea: Hei matawai i tētahi atu kōkota, patohia te pātene ‘Scan again’, me miri whakararo rānei i te mata otinga ki te whakakore. Kāore te matawai i te Kōkota e whāki atu mēnā kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua, kāore rānei - engari ka whāki mēnā kua tutuki ngā herenga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ma tēnei e pupuri te tūmataitinga o te hunga tē āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate nā ngā take hauora. Tērā pea kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate, he tohu whakawātea ā-hauora rānei tāna (he iti noa te hunga o Aotearoa ka whiwhi i tēnei). Ki te hiahia āwhina koe ki te taupānga, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki te rōpū motuhake i Te Manatū Hauora. Īmēra VerifierTechHelp@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea ki 0800 800 606 Last updated: 20 January 2022 at 12:57 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Rapua he kōrero mō te tuku kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti hei ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19 Te Kaupapa Tuku Kano Ārai Mate KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka puta pea i te kano ārai mate Pfizer he pānga kino ki ētahi tamariki. Koinei tonu te urupare a te tinana, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate. Last updated: 18 February 2022 at 10:10 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. He mea tikanga hira te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia noho haumaru ngā tamariki, he rite ki te pani ārai hihira, te whakamau tātua waka rānei. He tiaki i ō tamariki mai i ngā mate nui me te ārai i te hōrapa o te mate ki roto i tō whānau me te hapori. E rua ngā potanga kano ārai mate Pfizer me whiwhi te tamaiti hei tino ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka tukuna ngā potanga e rua kia 8 wiki i waenganui. Ka taea te whakapoto te wā ki te 21 rā i te iti rawa mēnā e hiahiatia ana, hei tauira, mēnā kei te tīmata maimoatanga rongoā pēhi ārai mate nui tō tamaiti. Kua whakamātautauria haumanutia te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau me ngā tamariki nō tēnei rōpū taipakeke, ā, me kī, ko ngā pānga kino i pūrongohia he māmā, kāore i roa, ā, he rite ki ngā pānga kino nō ētahi atu kano ārai mate noa Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka pā mai pea ētahi pānga kino māmā ki tō tamaiti i te 1—2 rā i muri i te whiwhi i tana kano ārai mate Pfizer. He mea noa tēnei, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te ako tōna tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. Kāore e tino roa te pānga mai o te nuinga o ngā pānga kino, ā, kāore he pānga o te nuinga ki ō mahi o ia rā. Mēnā kāore e pā mai he pānga kino ki tō tamaiti kei te pai tērā, kei te mahi tonu te kano ārai mate. Ka taea ngā pānga pāwera kino te pā mai engari he tino rerekē ēnei. Ka whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ēnei. Me kōrero atu ki tō kaiwero mēnā ka māuiui tō tamaiti, kei te māharahara rānei koe, i te mea he tere te pā mai o ngā pānga pāwera kino i muri i te kano ārai mate. Koinei te take me tirotiro tō tamaiti mō te 15 meneti i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate. He kino ake pea ētahi pānga kino, engari he mokorea, pēnei i te mate pāwera tino kino, te kakā o te manawa rānei (Myocarditis me te pericarditis). He tino rerekē te pā mai o te myocarditis me te pericarditis engari he pānga kino ēnei nō te kano ārai mate Pfizer. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, kāore i kitea ēnei i roto i ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau, engari he mea nui kia mōhio ki ngā tohumate mō ngā taipakeke katoa ka whiwhi kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā mai ētahi o ēnei tohumate hou ki tō tamaiti, me rapu āwhina hauora koe, otirā mēnā kāore e kore atu ēnei tohumate: He mea nui kia pūrongohia e koe ngā pānga ki ō tamariki whai muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā mātau whaiwhai i te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate. Ka taea e koe te pūrongo ngā pānga kino ki tō tamaiti i report.vaccine.covid19.govt.nz (external link) , me kōrero rānei ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te kōrero mō te pūrongo i ngā pānga kino. Ehara i te mea me mātua mōhio koe i ahu mai te pānga i te kano ārai mate hei tuku pūrongo. Ka whiwhi anō pea koe i tētahi karere patowaea i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai KOWHEORI-19 a tō tamaiti e tono ana kia whakaotihia e koe he rangahau poto mō ngā pānga. Mā te whakauru mai ka āwhina koe i a mātau kia whiwhi mōhio mō te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Kei a koe te tikanga mēnā ka whakauru mai ki te rangahau, ā, ka āhei koe ki te wehe atu ahakoa te wā. He koreutu te whakautu i te patowaea. Ka kitea he mōhiohio atu anō i Medsafe.govt.nz/COVID-safety-reporting/ (external link) Mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio mō ngā tohumate o tō tamaiti, waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara tonu ōu mō te haumaru o tō tamaiti, me waea atu ki 111 , ā, me mātua whakamōhio atu i whiwhi tō tamaiti i tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātau aromatawai i tōna tūāhua. Ka āwhina ngā kano ārai mate ki te tiaki i ngā tāngata nō ngā taipakeke katoa mai i ētahi o ngā mate maunoa maha, pērā i te mate karawaka, me te whurū. Me tiro mēnā kua whiwhi tō whānau i ngā kano ārai mate katoa mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Kāore he māharahara mō te wā ka whiwhi i ētahi atu kano ārai mate ehara i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te mate karawaka, mate repe pupuhi, rūpera; kāore koe e mate ki te hiki i ēnei kano ārai mate mō tētahi atu wā. Haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu mōhiohio. I muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate Pfizer a tō tamaiti | After your child’s Pfizer vaccination [PDF, 218 KB] Last updated: 10 February 2022 at 1:24 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ka āhei ngā mātua me ngā kaitiaki tamariki ki te tiaki i ā rātau tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau mai i te KOWHEORI-19, mā te tuku i tētahi hanganga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer (mātai mate tamariki). Ko te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mō ngā tamariki he tauira kano ārai mate Pfizer tēnei mō ngā tamariki, ā, he iti ake te potanga me te rahinga. E rua ngā potanga me whiwhi ngā tamariki kia tino whakamarutia. E tūtohua ana kia 8 wiki i te iti rawa i waenganui. Ka taea te whakapoto te wā ki te 21 rā i te iti rawa mēnā e hiahiatia ana, hei tauira, mēnā kei te tīmata maimoatanga tō tamaiti me ngā rongoā pēhi ārai mate. E tūtohu ana Te Manatū Hauora kia whiwhi kano ārai mate tō tamaiti hei tiaki i a ia me tō whānau, hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. He tikanga hira te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia noho haumaru ngā tamariki, he rite ki te pani ārai hihira, te whakamau tātua waka rānei. He tiaki i ō tamariki mai i ngā mate nui me te ārai i te hōrapa o te mate ki roto i tō whānau me te hapori. I Aotearoa, ka whiwhi ngā tamariki i ngā kano ārai mate koreutu mō ngā mate 12, tae atu ki te mare heihei (pertussis), mate karawaka me te whakamemeke. Mā te tuku kano ārai mate ki ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau ka āwhina ki te tiaki i ērā o te whānau he nui ake te mōrea ki te KOWHEORI-19 nā ō rātau mate. He matawhawhati pea te mate KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ahakoa he māmā ake te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ngā tamariki, he rite ngā tohumate ki te whurū, ka pāngia kinotia ētahi tamariki e te mate, ā, ka uru pea ki te hōhipera. Ka pāngia hoki ngā tamariki ki ētahi mate tino rerekē pērā i te Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), ā, tērā pea ka uru ki te wāhanga whāomoomo. Ka pāngia anō ngā tamariki ki ngā pānga kino wā roa (e kīia ana ko te KOWHEORI mauroa), mai i ngā kēhi KOWHEORI-19 māmā hoki. Pērā anō i ngā pakeke, ki te pāngia tō tamaiti e te mate KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e ia te tuku mate ki ētahi atu. Kua whakamātautauria haumanutia te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau me ngā tamariki nō tēnei rōpū taipakeke. Me kī, ko ngā pānga kino i pūrongohia he māmā, kāore i roa, ā, he rite ki ngā pānga kino nō ētahi atu kano ārai mate noa. E tūtohua ana te kano ārai mate mō ngā tamariki he mate pāwera kai ō rātau. Engari kāore he kai, keratini, taherapa rānei i roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ko te pūtake anake kia kaua te tangata e whiwhi i tēnei kano ārai mate nā te pāwera mēnā i pā mai he pāwera kino ki a ia i mua (anaphylaxis) mai i tētahi potanga kano ārai mate Pfizer, he kai rānei nō roto o te kano ārai mate. I whakahaerehia anō taua tukanga whakaae taikaha mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer tamariki (mātai mate tamariki) pērā i ētahi atu kano ārai mate tamariki noa. Kāore i pokaina he whakamātautau haumanu, he karo rānei i roto i ngā whakamātautau i te haumarutanga. Mēnā kei te āhua āmaimai ia, ka āhei ia ki te heri atu i tētahi mea hei whakaware i a ia, pērā i tētahi taonga tākaro ngohengohe, he waea rānei. Mēnā he pānga ki ō tamariki i ētahi atu kano ārai mate i mua, me whakamōhio atu ki tō kaiwero, me kōrero rānei ki tō rata i mua i te wāhui, me kōrero rānei ki tētahi mātanga matatau nō te COVID Vaccination Healthline – 0800 28 29 26 . Me whai tētahi matua, kaitiaki rānei i tō tamaiti ki tana wāhui hei pakeke tōtika me te tuku whakaae mōna kia whiwhi kano ārai mate ia. I te wāhui, kei te pakeke me te tamaiti te kaha ki te tuku i ngā pātai katoa e hiahia ana rāua. Pērā me ngā kano ārai mate katoa, kāore e kore ka mamae tō ringa o tō tamaiti, ā, ka whero, ka mamae, ka pupuhi rānei te wāhi i weroa. Ko ētahi atu pānga ka taea, ko te tikanga i roto i te kotahi, rua rā rānei, ko te: Pā noa mai ēnei, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate. Me whakahau kia whakatā, ā, kia nui tonu te inu wai. He tino rerekē ngā pānga kino mai i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer, ā, i te nuinga o te wā ka pā mai i muri tonu i te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei, ka whakanohotia kōrua ko tō tamaiti ki tētahi wāhi mātai kia tirotirohia ai ia e ngā kaimahi haumanu hei whakarite ka whiwhi maimoatanga hauora ia ki te tūpono pā mai tēnei. Ngā tohu pānga kino pea ko te: Mēnā ka kite koe kua pāngia tō tamaiti e tētahi o ēnei tohumate, me wawe te whakamōhio atu ki ngā kaimahi haumanu. Mēnā kāore koe i tētahi wāhi tuku kano ārai mate me waea atu ki 111 . He tino rerekē te pā mai o te myocarditis me te pericarditis engari he pānga kino ēnei nō te kano ārai mate Pfizer. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, kāore i kitea ēnei i roto i ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau, engari he mea nui kia mōhio ki ngā tohumate mō ngā taipakeke katoa ka whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ki te pā mai tētahi o ēnei tohumate ki tō tamaiti i ngā rā, ngā wiki rānei i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate, me wawe tonu te whiwhi āwhina hauora. Ngā tohumate o te myocarditis me te pericarditis: Kāore he utu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mō te tangata. Mai i te 17 o Hānuere, ka āhei ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki tamariki rānei te haere ki tētahi wāhi tuku kano ārai mate kuhu noa me ā rātau tamariki, te whakamahi rānei i te BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) hei whiwhi kano ārai mate me tō rātau kaiwhakarato hauora ake, whare rata rānei. Me mātua whakarite ka tīpakohia e koe te awhe taipakeke tika. Mēnā kei te hiahia koe ki te tāpui mō neke atu i te kotahi tamaiti, kāore rānei e taea e koe te tāpui tuihono, ka taea te waea atu ki COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 (8am–8pm, 7 rā i te wiki), ā, ka whakaritea e mātau te tāpuitanga mōu me te whakautu i ō pātai. E wātea ana ngā kaiwhakamāori. E wātea ana te Rōpū Tautoko Hauātanga i te Mane ki te Paraire, mai i te 8am ki te 8pm. Ka tautokona e rātau tō whānau me te tāpui i tētahi wāhui mōu. Ka taea anō e rātau te whakautu ō pātai mō ngā hiahia o tō tamaiti tae atu ki te wātea mai ki a rātau, ngā kōwhiringa ikiiki koreutu, ngā pānga rānei o te kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti. Mō ētahi mōhiohio anō me ngā hono hei rangahau, haere ki: Me kōrero ki tētahi kaitohutohu matatau kei te COVID Vaccination Healthline – 0800 28 29 26 8am–8pm, 7 ra i te wiki. Te tiaki i ō tamariki mai i te KOWHEORI-19 | Protecting your tamariki from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Last updated: 10 February 2022 at 1:24 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. If you are concerned someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available: Last updated 15 August 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. This includes: We update this data every weekday. For weekend case numbers, visit the Ministry of Health website: Latest news | Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 data and statistics | Ministry of Health (external link) 536 Cases in hospital 3,558 New active cases (community and border) 4,230 7-day rolling average of community cases 30,802 Active cases (community and border) 50 People reinfected within 90 days of a previous infection You can filter case numbers by health districts, age groups, and first infections and reinfections. COVID-19 data charts | Health Hub (external link) Last updated 15 August 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and deaths related to COVID-19. COVID-19 current cases data | Ministry of Health (external link) 14 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 1,750 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) From Monday 8 August 2022, we will be calculating the percentage of people vaccinated using an updated dataset. The Health System User dataset counts the number of people in New Zealand who have used health services over a 12-month period. This increased by 233,000 in 2021. Because the updated dataset is bigger, the percentage of those vaccinated has dropped. However, the number of people vaccinated has not changed. The dataset will be updated every 6 months so we can provide the most accurate information about vaccination coverage. Updated health user information informs COVID-19 vaccination programme | Te Whatu Ora (external link) Last updated 15 August 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 91% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 90% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 266,434 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 146,866 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 3,132,384 Booster doses (ages 16+) Check our map to find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand Last updated 15 August 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) 6,359 RATs reported in last 24 hours 2,442 PCR tests in last 24 hours Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | Stats NZ (external link) If data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and, for researchers, the ability to request detailed COVID-19 data. COVID-19 data resources | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 15 August 2022 at 1:30 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated. This map shows the vaccination rates for areas around New Zealand. Type your address to see the proportion of people who have received their first, second or booster dose in your area, compared with the national average. Age group Dose Ethnicity Map areas Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Map key  Map key Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 14 March 2022 at 2:52 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1-10 of 1043 updates 15 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 New Zealand will remain at the Orange traffic light setting, while hospitalisations remain elevated and pressure on the health system continues through winter. 08 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 03 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. The woman absconded from the Pullman Hotel on foot shortly before 6:20pm and was located soon after a couple of blocks away at 8pm on Anzac Avenue. This was excellent work by Police staff who located the woman as quickly as possible . She was located outdoors. The exact movements of the woman are still being determined. Charges are being considered by Police. The woman, who was travelling on her own, arrived in New Zealand from Brisbane, Australia, on 27 June. She had a COVID-19 test on 30 June which returned a negative result. We recognise that managed isolation can be stressful for people who come to it with a variety of circumstances. However, wilfully leaving our facilities cannot and will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Every person who arrives in New Zealand must be isolated from other people for a minimum period of 14 days. They must also test negative for COVID-19 before they can go into the community. This 14-day period forms a critical part of the actions being taken to keep New Zealand and New Zealanders safe during a global pandemic when case numbers are constantly increasing overseas. Police are taking all necessary precautions to keep its staff safe. As such, the five Police officers who came into contact with the woman will self-isolate and undergo a COVID-19 test. Further advice will be provided to the officers around self-isolation and testing once we have clarified with certainty the movements and contact throughout the incident. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. The man has this morning tested positive for Covid-19 and has been moved to the Jet Park quarantine facility. Around 6:50pm the man escaped through a fenced area at the Stamford Plaza when he was out smoking, as a section of external fencing was being replaced. Security attempted to follow the man but were unsuccessful in locating him. Police were called immediately, and enquiries were underway to locate the man including reviewing CCTV footage and undertaking substantial area searches, before he returned to the facility where he was then interviewed by Police. Enquiries have established the man went to Countdown on Victoria Street West on foot and purchased items at a self-service checkout, before returning to the hotel around 8pm. Once the man’s movements were established Police visited the supermarket and ensured the self-service checkout and the areas entered by the man were cleaned. Auckland Regional Public Health is working with Countdown on any contact tracing and testing requirements. CCTV footage from within the supermarket has confirmed there was no close contact between the man and any staff or customers during his time there. Following the confirmation of the positive case, the supermarket has closed and a further deep clean is being carried out today. Police are currently undertaking an immediate review of CCTV footage to determine the man’s movements in the Auckland CBD. The actions of this man are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against Covid-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part. We take any breach of the Covid-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. The fencing in place at all managed isolation facilities is being replaced with 6ft high fences. Our security framework is currently being assessed to determine what improvements may need to be made, and security requirements are being re-emphasised at all facilities. We are also reviewing the arrangements in place for smokers, and security in smoking areas. The man, who is a New Zealand citizen and arrived from New Delhi on 3 July, will be summonsed to appear in court at a later date charged under section 26(1) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility, the Distinction Hotel, yesterday. He is due to appear in court later today. The person tested negative for their day 3 test and has today had their second test, after arriving from Sydney on 1 July. It is important to note that the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. Initial information suggests an individual cut through fence ties at the 1.8-metre fence to break out of the facility, and returned to the facility sometime after that. It is believed the individual was off the premises for around half an hour, between approximately 6:30pm and 7pm. Local health authorities and Police are in communication with local businesses that may have come into contact with the individual, and are exploring CCTV footage to confirm their movements. We have talked to one liquor store on Te Rapa Road where we believe the individual visited, and it has cleaned its premises as a result of our inquiries.  Police ensured no one entered the store this morning until health officials confirmed it was safe to do so. I would like to thank the store for their cooperation and for applying extra vigilance in this situation. Health officials have advised the store owner that all necessary steps have been taken to protect the public. Public health has provided advice to the store owner that this is a low-risk scenario and they do not have to close. A review of CCTV footage at the managed isolation facility has confirmed there are no close contacts. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. As we have said repeatedly - actions such as these are completely unacceptable. Returnees are given clear instructions and information about what their responsibilities are. Managed isolation is a critical part in our defence against COVID-19, and it is up to each and every person entering this country to play their part and abide by the law. The vast majority of returnees take their responsibilities seriously and abide by the law while in managed isolation. Since 26 March, 27,723 people have gone through managed isolation. We take any breach of the COVID-19 rules very seriously. Wilfully leaving our facilities will not be tolerated, and the appropriate action will be taken. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on is 0800 358 5453. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time late last night from an Auckland managed isolation facility, the Waipuna Hotel. The individual tested negative for their day 3 test, after arriving in New Zealand on 4 July. Their next scheduled test is due on around day 12.  They are symptom free. Public Health advise the COVID-19 health risk has been assessed as very low. The individual is now under guard in the facility. Investigations at this point also indicate there were no close contacts outside the facility. Standard COVID-19 procedures are being followed for police and staff who were in contact with the individual. The individual broke and climbed out of a window in their room and climbed perimeter fencing to abscond. They were last seen at the facility at around 11pm. They were picked up by police at about 12.15am and immediately returned to the facility where they were put under guard. The individual had allegedly knocked on three residents’ doors while outside the facility. The first property did not answer. The second property called 111. At the third property the individual apparently spoke to a couple. Public health will be talking to local residents to reassure them of the low risk and provide any advice. The individual is being offered health and welfare support. Anyone who has concerns about their health should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Two thirds of New Zealanders are now eligible for their booster, as new mask requirements come in to help keep people safe. If you got your second vaccination at least 3 months ago, you can walk-in or book to get your booster from today. There is plenty of capacity to get vaccinated this weekend and throughout February, wherever you are in the country. This is the best thing you can do to protect yourselves and your whānau as we prepare for Omicron. Get boosted, and wear a mask when you cannot distance from others. We will have a much better chance of facing the virus if we are well prepared. From 11:59pm last night (3 February) medical type masks became mandatory for those people who fall under a vaccine mandate and are in public-facing roles at work. For everyone else, masks are still mandatory on flights, public transport, in taxis, retail, public facilities, and in education for Year 4 and up. They are also now mandatory in close proximity businesses, food and drink businesses, at public events and gatherings. Masks can no longer be a t-shirt, bandana or scarf. It needs to cover your mouth and nose, and attach with ear or head loops. Ensuring you have the right mask, and that it is worn properly, will improve the overall effectiveness of wearing them and help reduce transmission of COVID-19, including Omicron. We are now looking to the next stages of our response to COVID-19 and Reconnecting New Zealanders to the world. We are preparing for the virus in our communities by putting measures in place to tackle it head on. Our high vaccination rates and climbing booster rate is our best defence from getting very sick from the virus, while masks help us to reduce the likelihood of passing it on to others or picking it up. These measures and continued good hygiene practices, alongside our phased plan to take on Omicron, will help keep our supply chains operating, economy ticking, people in work and kids in school. Last updated: 4 February 2022 at 12:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. There were 41,077 first and second vaccine doses administered yesterday, made up of: To date, 93% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 86% are fully vaccinated. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 1 December 2021 at 3:48 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Watch the COVID-19 media conference held by government officials and ministers at 4pm. Speakers: Transcript of the 4pm media conference The COVID-19 media conference was held at 10:30am. Speakers: Transcript of the 10:30am media conference Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference here. Today we are reporting 9,495 community cases, 551 hospitalisations and 15 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, with today's seven-day rolling average at 9,288 – last Wednesday it was 12,307. The number of reported community cases is expected to continue to fluctuate day to day but the overall trend remains an overall reduction in reported cases. There are three actions that everyone can do to help protect themselves and others. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 15 people with COVID-19. These deaths all occurred over the past eight days, including 11 in the past two days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 531 and the seven-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, one was from Northland, four from the Auckland region, one from Waikato, one from Bay of Plenty, one from Lakes DHB area, two from MidCentral, three from Nelson Marlborough, and two from Canterbury. One person was aged in their 40s, two in their 50s, two in their 60s, four in their 70s, five in their 80s, and one over 90. Eight were female and seven were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 11 May 2022 at 12:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference with ministers was held at 1pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference.  Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12:30pm. Speakers: Last updated: 19 July 2022 at 5:20 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4:20pm. Speaker: Last updated: 17 December 2021 at 2:41 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 12pm. Speakers: Watch the media conference here. Last updated: 16 February 2022 at 11:13 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. The Ministry of Health has confirmed two new cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand are related to the border and as a result of recent travel from the UK. Both cases are connected. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12pm. Speakers: Last updated: 19 July 2022 at 11:58 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12:20pm. Speakers: Watch the livestream below.  Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 18 people with COVID-19. 15 deaths of the reported occurred in the past 3 days, and 3 occurred since 13 June 2022. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,450 and the seven-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 3 were from the Auckland region, 1 from Waikato, 1 from MidCentral, 5 were from the Wellington region, 2 were from Nelson-Marlborough, 3 were from Canterbury, 1 was from South Canterbury, and 2 were from Southern. 1 person was in 50s, 1 was in their 60s, 3 were in their 70s, 8 were in their 80s and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 8 were male and 10 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. The long weekend is always an ideal time to get away and relax with whānau and friends. If you are going away, please remember to have plans in place in the event you contract COVID-19 or are identified as a Household Contact of a case. You would need to self-isolate and likely remain wherever you test positive or become a Household Contact, so there may be extra costs involved in paying for additional accommodation and changing your travel plans. If you have used your own vehicle to travel, you can travel back to your home to isolate, taking public health measures to ensure you don’t infect anyone on your way home – such as maintaining social distance (distancing yourself from others), wearing your mask correctly, making sure you keep your hands clean and dry and using self-service petrol stations if you need to refuel your vehicle. However, if you have used public transport or travelled between islands, you won’t be able to travel to isolate at your home. So it is important you have a plan and the ability to isolate where you are holidaying if you need to do so. As with all variants of Omicron, the public health advice remains the same. Getting your booster remains one of the best defences against COVID-19. Stay home if you’re unwell, get tested if you are symptomatic, wash and dry your hands, cover coughs and sneezes, wear a mask in crowded or poorly ventilated indoor public settings and get vaccinated. If you get COVID-19 while travelling Face masks at Orange Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 22 June 2022 at 1:18 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference starts at 12 noon. Speakers: Watch livestream here. Last updated: 24 February 2022 at 11:51 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12pm. Speakers: Head of the Public Health Agency Dr Andrew Old National Director of Te Whatu Ora – Health New Zealand’s National Public Health Service Dr Nick Chamberlain. Watch the livestream of the briefing below. Today we are reporting 6,152 community cases and 663 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,142 — last Thursday it was 7,776. There are now a total of 1,603 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 20. (This update is provided each Thursday) Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 4 August 2022 at 1:08 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 3pm. Speakers:  Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The COVID-19 media conference with officials took place at 1pm. Speaker: Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua as it explores options for COVID-19 contact tracing. The University of Otago and Nelson Marlborough district health board (DHB) ran a government-funded trial of the CovidCard during lockdown, which found the CovidCard works under controlled conditions. A further trial will be run in Rotorua region, which will involve between 250 and 300 people. It will help us understand how the CovidCard works in a real-world scenario, if it works with our existing contact tracing systems and whether New Zealanders will use it. The Government will also consider whether the CovidCard meets high security and privacy standards, and if it can be used by a wide range of people. Contact tracing is one of the best ways we have to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, and digital solutions can help make this faster and more effective. No digital solution has been proven to ‘solve’ contact tracing, so the Government is exploring all available options. It is continuing to improve the NZ COVID Tracer app and exploring how it could use Bluetooth technology to increase its effectiveness. It is also investigating the proposed CovidCard. The CovidCard is designed to be worn using a lanyard and record when it comes into ‘close contact’ with another card (within 2 metres for 15 minutes), with this information only held for 21 days. With consent, this information would be given to contact tracers if a cardholder tests positive for COVID-19. CovidCards would be identified by serial numbers and would not store personal details. Cardholder contact details would be stored in a separate database. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. "Because I think there is a serious and significant risk to the public, with the spread of COVID-19 in communities in Auckland, as a national medical officer of health I’m taking the significant and serious step of making an oral direction under section 70 of the Health Act 1956. I require the following people to do 2 things. This direction applies to the following people: If you need advice accessing financial assistance while you have been directed to isolate at home you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009." Given at Wellington at 1pm Wednesday 12 August 2020 Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director-General of Health Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Through the course of managing Omicron, we will be taking a phased approach. As case numbers grow, both testing and isolation approaches will change in response. Other countries have had to adapt their response in the middle of widespread outbreaks. We are setting out the changes ahead of large case numbers to give people a clearer idea of what to expect and what they need to do at each phase. Almost no country in the world has escaped Omicron and New Zealand is no exception. But where we can be an exception is how well we minimise the impact of the virus and protect our people from it. Vaccination remains our most effective weapon against the virus. The Omicron variant is markedly less severe than prior variants. One US report suggests the hospitalisation rate is 10 times less than the Delta variant. Its transmission and severity is also reduced by vaccination. So far, we have been focused on keeping Omicron out of the community for as long as possible while we roll out vaccinations to children and boosters for our adult population. Now that it is here, we expect case numbers to grow rapidly and put our health system under considerable pressure. Here are the three phases for Omicron: Phase One is where we are now, and we are doing what we have successfully done with Delta — taking a ‘stamp it out’ approach. Broadly speaking, that includes the same contact tracing, isolation, and request that everyone who is symptomatic be tested at a community testing station or at a primary health provider. If you are required to isolate, you will receive advice and — if needed — support to do so. At this phase you will need to isolate for 14 days if you are a case, and 10 days if you are contact. Our objective is to keep cases as low as possible for as long as possible to allow people to be boosted and children to be vaccinated without Omicron being widespread. In Phase Two, our objective is to slow the spread and protect our vulnerable communities. The system will be adjusted to focus much more on identifying those who are at greater risk of severe illness from Omicron — which will be a smaller percentage of cases. In Phase Two, we will reduce the isolation period for cases to 10 days and contacts to 7 days in line with best practice overseas. Household contacts will actively be managed by contact tracing services, with close contacts requiring a PCR test on day 5. A rapid escalation in case numbers and the resulting pressure on our resources will also require us to shift from identifying all infected individuals to being more targeted to those most at risk and those needed to keep the country going. Digital technology is used more in this phase. Cases will be notified via text message and be directed to an online self-investigation tool which will focus on high-risk exposures. Information will be provided via email and phone-based interviews will still take place where it’s required. Other forms of support will be available to those who need it. We will also change our current testing requirements for critical workers who are close contacts of cases. The prime focus of testing and tracing will be protecting this workforce and those most vulnerable to becoming severely unwell. Phase Two is where we will see more widespread use of the test to return-to-work policy where asymptomatic contacts in critical workforces can return a negative rapid antigen test in order to go to work. We will continue to manage testing of symptomatic people and Close Contacts with PCR testing but we will be enabling ‘test to return’ for asymptomatic critical workers who are close contacts of cases using rapid antigen tests (RATs). These are people like our healthcare workers and those working in food supply and infrastructure who are key to our response to COVID-19 and also in ensuring New Zealanders can continue to access the services they need. RATs will be integrated into our testing system at this phase and will work alongside PCR tests. They will be useful when the laboratories cannot provide PCR results within a useful time frame because of large volumes or because of transport delays. At Phase Three, when cases are in the thousands, we will make further changes to contact tracing. The definition of contacts will change to household and household like contacts only. This will mean the highest risk contacts will need to isolate. Supported self-service, rapid antigen testing for diagnosing COVID-19 and a self-service tool to enable identification of high-risk contacts will be significant to respond to the high volumes of Omicron cases. Digital technologies will continue to be utilised at this phase, and people will be supported to self-notify Close Contacts. There will be continued support for those members of our community who are not digitally enabled. The majority of people will be supported and be able to self-manage and isolate at home; and clinical care will focus on anyone with high needs. Clinical care and welfare support will be targeted based on need. Through the course of Phase Two and Three, we have a test to return regime that will apply to our critical workforces, to keep them going through the outbreak. Our plan is simple — get boosted, wear a mask, follow basic hygiene rules we’ve become so familiar with and reduce contact as much as is practical. We have slowed the virus from entering the community and given households and businesses time to prepare. As always, it’s what each and everyone one of us can do as individuals that will make a difference. Omicron is now in more than 80 countries around the world. By delaying its arrival here we’ve had the time to kick off boosters, vaccinations for children, and prepare. I encourage everyone to use the coming days to take steps at home and with your family, neighbours and community to make a plan. Resources to help you do this are on the Unite Against Covid-19 website. Be prepared for COVID-19 Our response to Omicron Last updated: 27 January 2022 at 4:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. That means anyone arriving by sea, unless exempt, will need to be vaccinated when New Zealand’s maritime border reopens at 11:59 pm today — 31 July 2022. These health requirements are part of the planned reopening of New Zealand’s border to overseas visitors. Being vaccinated reduces the risk that a visitor will need hospital care if they contract COVID-19. That in turn reduces the risk of visitors having to use Aotearoa New Zealand’s healthcare system, adding additional pressure. Exemptions to the requirements, for both air and sea arrivals, include New Zealand citizens, permanent residents, Australian citizens who are ordinarily resident in New Zealand, and children aged 16 years and younger. Check the vaccination requirements Cruise ship passengers will be asked by their booking agent or the operator for proof of vaccination for all eligible passengers. Cruise operators will then need to provide information and evidence to the New Zealand government that the eligible passengers have provided this proof. Passengers on board other types of recreational vessels will also need to show their proof of vaccination to NZ Customs before arriving. After arriving, passengers will need to comply with New Zealand’s domestic COVID-19 requirements around mask-wearing, and testing. If they test positive for COVID-19, or become a Household Contact, they will need to isolate on board. On the advice of public health officials, asymptomatic travellers arriving on cruise and recreational vessels will not need to self-test after arriving. Crew and passengers arriving on cargo and fishing vessels must continue to self-test if they are planning to disembark, but do not need to be vaccinated. How to enter New Zealand by sea Last updated: 5 July 2022 at 8:02 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. It also protects those most susceptible to getting sick like older people, those with low immunity, or those with some health conditions or disabilities. Across the motu we are seeing an increase in respiratory illnesses like colds and flu, in addition to COVID-19, put pressure on hospitals and local healthcare providers. Wearing a mask is an effective way to protect ourselves, and others as they help to stop infection spreading between people, particularly when we are close together, or indoors without good ventilation. Mask wearing is just one action New Zealanders can take to help protect themselves and others from illness this winter. Other actions include: All these measures help reduce the spread of infections. If others have chosen not to, or can’t wear a mask, it’s still worth wearing one to protect yourself from catching a virus or infecting others around you. Wearing a mask also helps our kaimahi – or frontline healthcare teams – who are working hard to provide care for patients and our communities. By wearing a mask, you’re thinking of them and helping them to prevent people needing hospital and primary care. For the best protection, choose a good quality mask that fits you well and is comfortable to wear. Also remember to: Because it is possible to get COVID-19 again, even if you’ve had it previously, you should wear a mask – you’re not necessarily immune from getting it again. Let’s all work together to help everyone get through winter in good shape. Last updated: 23 June 2022 at 12:48 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government has activated two new Managed Isolation facilities in Rotorua this weekend as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put in place for new arrivals. There are currently 4,272 people in managed isolation facilities and with more flights expected this week, capacity has been reached in Auckland. Air Commodore Darryn Webb was appointed this week to oversee the operations of all quarantine and managed isolation facilities and has implemented new processes this weekend to protect New Zealanders. Air Commodore Webb has responsibility for the entire end to end process for Managed Isolation and Quarantine including: “As we bring more kiwis home, we need to expand our Managed Isolation facilities and review our processes to ensure border protections remain robust. Repatriation needs to happen in a safe and managed way which will impose additional inconveniences on travellers, says Air Commodore Webb. “And while I sympathise with new restrictions travellers face, I make no apologies for the tough rules that are in place. Those returning to New Zealand will require personal sacrifices in order to keep the country free of COVID-19 spread. “Government agencies worked together with the local District Health Board and hotels to open two hotels to receive returnees arriving from overseas. “These two facilities join 18 hotels in Auckland and Christchurch to provide managed isolation services to ensure the safe transition of people back into New Zealand and the community after their 14 day managed isolation. “In total, 232 returnees were transferred by seven dedicated buses from Auckland International Airport following their arrival on three flights from Australia yesterday. “The buses had a bathroom stop at Waharoa. Protocols were put in place to ensure the bathroom facilities were cleaned after the stop. “On arrival in Rotorua, returnees were moved off the bus in groups and were greeted by government and health staff. As part of the arrival process, returnees were given a briefing, completed medical forms, seen by a nurse, received food, and then taken to their rooms. As in other facilities, it was emphasised the requirement for returnees to keep physical distance from others. “Today, returnees will receive more detailed instructions, and will have the opportunity to seek welfare support and to ask any questions they have. “I acknowledge that those arriving on this flight had an expectation they were completing their managed isolation in Auckland. However, an increase in arrivals returning to New Zealand has required alternative plans to be put in place. “The plan to use the Stamford Hotel is on hold until I am satisfied it is a suitable as a Managed Isolation facility, and the Rotorua facilities had been stood up in the meantime. “We are working to address capacity due to the increase in arrivals and may look to other regions to help accommodate future arrivals. "It has been made crystal clear to the new arrivals that in addition to the rules, they must also take personal responsibility for ensuring they maintain social distancing and remain isolated from others. Everyone coming into the country needs to act like they have COVID-19. “An end to end review of the Managed Isolation and Quarantine process is due this week that will assess the: “In the meantime, the number of personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force onsite at the Managed Isolation facilities in Auckland has been doubled to 72 staff. “Police’s onsite presence has also increased, with additional staff in each facility, and specifically identified afterhours support should it be required. “These personnel will assist local staff in a number of roles, including ensuring the security and safety of returnees during their time in Managed Isolation. “Testing has been ramped up and all returnees must be tested on day three and day twelve of their stay. “We have robust systems in place, and strong accountability at both a national level through my role, and at each of the facilities through a designated onsite operational lead. “However, people must be responsible for their own actions. We did not require a police officer on every street corner during the lockdown here in New Zealand, and each New Zealander played their part. We are asking the same of returnees during their stay in managed isolation and quarantine to take responsibility for their own actions and to ensure they abide by the requirements of their stay. “Let me be very clear, people must take responsibility for their actions, and if they choose not to, there are consequences. “It is good news for thousands of travellers and their families that they can return to New Zealand where community transmission of COVID-19 has been eliminated. It is up to each and every one of them to help in maintaining this and allowing us as a nation to continue with the least restrictions in the world,” said Air Commodore Webb. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government has today released the review of the managed isolation and quarantine and outlined the actions that are being taken to respond to issues highlighted by the review. Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine Air Commodore Darryn Webb says significant changes have already been introduced and work is urgently underway to address other issues raised in the review report. Last week Air Commodore Webb announced a doubling of the on-the-ground Defence Force staff of 32, across 18 facilities. As of today, we have 168 Defence Force personnel across 21 facilities providing 24/7 coverage. There are also more government and defence staff across the end-to-end system. “This increased resourcing has had an immediate impact on the ground in terms of making sure our people are well supported to carry out their roles and ensure the safe transfer of returnees into managed isolation. “The increase in resourcing will form the backbone of further changes that are being made to ensure the system is robust and fit-for-purpose. “We have also increased oversight of the transfer of returnees from aircraft through to managed isolation and quarantine facilities so they are escorted by government staff.” Other improvements rolling out now include: Health responses include: “All staff supporting this process are performing to a very high standard, and have been doing so over a long period of sustained and increasing pressure. I would like to acknowledge and thank them for their ongoing work and dedication to the job. I am committed to ensuring they have the support and structures that they need to deliver well-functioning managed isolation and quarantine for all New Zealanders,” Air Commodore Webb says. Managed isolation and quarantine: Review terms of reference [PDF, 130 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Review report [PDF, 279 KB] Managed isolation and quarantine: Action plan in response to review [PDF, 147 KB] Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A second COVID-19 booster is available for: For those not at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a two-dose primary course and one booster continues to provide very good protection. So, for those who haven’t had a first booster, please act now. The second booster dose should be offered 6 months after the previous dose, and postponed for 3 months after a COVID-19 infection. A second booster dose is not recommended for anyone who is pregnant and is healthy, including those with no underlying health conditions which could increase the risk of severe COVID-19. Staying up-to-date with the recommended COVID-19 vaccinations will continue to protect you from the risk of serious illness, hospitalisation or death. The Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group will continue to review new information on COVID-19 and vaccines and will make further recommendations on eligibility criteria as necessary. The combination of Omicron and flu is making this winter more challenging than normal. The best thing New Zealanders can do to ensure they and their families don’t end up in hospital is to be up-to-date with their flu and COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters. Anyone who is eligible for a second booster can get one without a prescription from a range of places, including: The Government is ramping up access to free flu vaccines and COVID-19 booster shots for those groups of people who are being admitted in increasing numbers to hospital. We are making free flu shots available to another 800,000 New Zealanders, including children, more of whom are having to go to hospital. Free flu shots are already available for everyone over the age of 65 and those at risk of becoming seriously ill or who have underlying conditions. This season we ordered 40% more vaccines. We have already seen more than 1 million New Zealanders get a flu shot, but with significant pressure on our health system we’re ramping up efforts to get as many people vaccinated as possible. In recent weeks we have seen a number of pre-school children hospitalised with the flu. We also know children can be transmitters of the flu to others in their family who are more at risk, so it makes sense to reduce transmission as much as we can. We also know that people with serious mental health or addiction needs can get seriously sick from the flu, which is why we are also extending flu vaccinations to this group this year. The extension of the free flu vaccination to more at-risk New Zealanders is just one of the actions we are taking to reduce pressure on our health system this winter. Flu shots are available by booking with GPs or local pharmacies.  The second COVID-19 booster is available for everyone 50 years and older, and health, aged-care and disability-care workers over the age of 30 once six months has passed since a previous dose. The second dose is recommended six months since their previous dose for: COVID-19 vaccinations, including the second booster, can be booked through Book My Vaccine (external link) or by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Find a walk-in vaccination centre near you If you have COVID-19 recently, you should delay your next scheduled COVID-19 vaccination for 3 months, however there is no need to defer your flu vaccination.  Last updated: 27 June 2022 at 9:32 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government is taking action to help reduce the spread of COVID-19 in schools and early childhood services. The country will remain at the Orange traffic light setting, with cases and hospitalisations remaining much lower than the peaks experienced earlier in the year. But with hospitals under pressure from flu and COVID-19, and numbers starting to creep up again, a suite of additional measures are being put in place to help reduce the spread. Moving back to Red is unnecessary at the moment. We can continue to manage the virus at Orange, but are putting in place a range of additional measures to help manage a recent rise in cases. Yesterday the 7-day rolling average of COVID-19 cases was 5,808 and there were 395 people in hospital and 8 in ICU. For comparison when we moved out of Red in April the rolling average of cases was nearly 10,000 a day and there were over 500 people in hospital including 28 in ICU. However, cases are ticking up and our health system is under pressure so we are putting in place a range of additional measures to help manage the virus over the coming winter months. The first thing we have already announced is the extension of the free flu vaccine to all children aged 3 to 12 and the provision of a second COVID-19 booster for everyone over the age of 50. Getting vaccinated is the number one thing New Zealanders can do to help relieve pressure on our health system this winter. We are seeing an overrepresentation of unvaccinated people in hospital admissions so we strongly urge everyone to make sure they are up to date with their vaccines. We are also updating our advice around reinfection and are now asking anyone experiencing COVID-19 symptoms 29 days or longer following their initial infection to test. Should they test positive they will need to isolate for 7 days. This is a change from earlier advice which was that people would not need to re-test if they had tested positive for COVID-19 within the past 90 days and is based on the latest international evidence and the need to isolate quickly people with reinfections. However Household Contacts who have had COVID-19 within 90 days will not need to isolate, unless they are symptomatic. There is clear updated advice on what they should do to reduce risks to themselves and others. While reinfections are low at the moment they are likely to increase. The B.5 variant of Omicron is predicted to become the dominant strain in the country in the coming weeks and is a different variant to what most New Zealanders caught the first time around. With these measures, alongside additional support in schools and early childhood services, the Government is stepping up our response to help reduce the spread of COVID. We always said this was going to be a challenging winter and we need everyone to play their part to help us get through safely. The Government is also providing a range of measures to help schools reduce the risk of winter illness spreading. The Ministry of Education has already secured a supply of 10 million special child-sized masks and intends to have them ready for distribution at the start of Term 3. This means there will be 50 child-size masks provided for every child in Years 4 to 7 in schools and kura throughout the country from now until the end of 2022. This is in addition to the adult-sized mask offered to all school children from Year 8 and up. Around 20,000 to 30,000 masks are already being distributed to students and staff every week across the country. The Government will also be providing additional funding this winter to encourage schools and centre-based early childhood services to maintain healthy levels of heating and ventilation to help reduce colds, flu and COVID from spreading. Good ventilation over winter can lead to some heat loss and higher heating bills. The winter energy payments will help reassure schools and services that they can balance heating and ventilation, without unaffordable energy bills. The Government does not usually explicitly fund energy costs for services, but the COVID-19 pandemic is a unique situation. The scientific evidence is clear that good ventilation helps prevent the spread of COVID-19. In addition, the Government has already provided every school in New Zealand with CO2 monitors to help them identify spaces where maintaining good ventilation is proving more challenging and bought more than 8,000 air cleaners to help improve the ventilation in these areas. Every school has access to more air cleaners at no cost if they need them to help supplement their approach to ventilation this winter. Last updated: 30 June 2022 at 1:26 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The combination of a spike in COVID-19 cases and hospitalisations, the worst flu season in recent memory and corresponding staff absences are putting health workers and the whole health system under extreme pressure. Our modelling suggests we are at the beginning of a second Omicron wave that could be bigger than the first, with the more transmissible BA.5 variant becoming the dominant strain in the community. There has been a significant increase in cases over the past 2 weeks, and the biggest jump is in cases amongst New Zealanders aged 65 and over. That in turn has led to an increase in hospital occupancy. We are continuing to ask New Zealanders to do 3 things: If we all play our part we can take some pressure off the health system. To support this, we are implementing a range of measures to help Kiwis stay well. These extra measures will help get us and the health system through the winter months. Please do your bit. We are increasing access to antiviral medication to those most likely to end up in hospital, making free masks and RATs more widely available and doing another push to lift uptake of flu and COVID-19 vaccines including the second booster. Antiviral medications can reduce the seriousness of COVID-19 meaning fewer people need to be hospitalised, so we are making these more widely available as pharmacist-only medications. Pharmac is also broadening the eligibility criteria to enable more people from higher risk groups to access antiviral medications. These eligible groups will be able to access antivirals without the need for a doctor’s prescription. This means access will expand from 2% to 10% of cases. From Monday 18 July, anyone over 75 years of age who has tested positive for COVID-19 or anyone who has been admitted previously to an Intensive Care Unit directly as a result of COVID-19 will be eligible to access antivirals through their doctor. This will help alleviate pressure on primary care by removing the need for GPs to review every COVID-19 patient that may be eligible for antivirals. To speed up access to antivirals, doctors can now provide back-pocket prescriptions, which means at-risk patients for acute respiratory illnesses can be preapproved and have their prescription ready should they become unwell and need the medicine immediately. To increase uptake in use in RATs and face masks, packs of medical masks will be provided free along with free RAT kits for individuals and households from testing centres and in more locations by the end of the week. You do not need to have COVID-19 symptoms. P2/N95 masks will be available for clinically vulnerable and high-risk individuals. Free RATs will be available from all current community providers, including marae, testing stations and local pharmacies. We are encouraging everyone who needs extra RATs or masks to head to a testing site or other location and collect a free pack for you and your whānau. There is no criteria — you do not need to be unwell or have symptoms. Wearing masks can reduce new cases of the virus by as much as 53%. We are asking New Zealanders to keep up good mask wearing, especially over the remaining winter months where the virus is more likely to pass in indoor settings. The tried and tested measures: wearing a high-quality mask, strong vaccine and booster uptake, antivirals and testing are highly effective and will put us in the best position to get through what is one of the toughest winters we have faced. We are also providing 10 million child-size masks available for Year 4 to 7 students in New Zealand and up to 30,000 masks a week for all other students and school staff, alongside extra funding to support better ventilation over winter. These are the most effective measures we have. They are simple but if we all do them we can lessen illness and the burden on our health system and dedicated health workers, and get through this darkest part of winter. How to get a COVID-19 test When to wear a face mask Last updated: 15 July 2022 at 3:20 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. At Alert Level 1, everyone can return without restriction to work, school, sports and domestic travel, and you can get together with as many people as you want. Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand, including health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed quarantine or isolation. As we unite to recover from the effects of COVID-19, it's still important that we keep the basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. We should all continue to keep track of where we’ve been and who we’ve seen to assist with rapid contact tracing if it is required. Businesses should help customers to keep track of where they’ve been by displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. More information about Alert Level 1 Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. There is still significant pressure on hospitals from winter illnesses, so our current measures have an ongoing role to play in reducing the number of COVID-19 cases and hospitalisations. The health system usually sees elevated pressure through September, so we would be hoping to see some sustained reductions in both cases and hospitalisations then. The good news is current modelling suggests COVID-19 cases may have peaked at around 11,000 cases per day mid-July. However, due to the current high levels of COVID-19 infection in the community, the corresponding burden on primary and hospital care systems and the highest levels of mortality seen in the outbreak so far, the COVID-19 Protection Framework setting has been kept the same. Remaining at Orange gives our health system the level of support needed to prevent a surge in demand for care. Maintaining our Orange setting a while longer supports the winter package of measures announced earlier in July, which included easier access to RATs and masks, expanded eligibility for antivirals and easier access to them for eligible people, and availability of the second booster to all people over 50. Our response to Omicron is moving in the right direction, but loosening settings before we are completely on top of it risk infections going up again. We just need to stay the course a little longer. There will be no changes to case isolation and household contact quarantine requirements. The next review setting will be in September. Under Orange, you are required to wear a mask in most indoor settings. You can visit cafes and bars, attend gatherings and events, and go to gyms and hairdressers — with no capacity limits or distancing requirements. Life at Orange Last updated: 5 July 2022 at 8:02 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Auckland moved to Alert Level 3 at 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August. Restrictions for Auckland at Alert Level 3 The rest of New Zealand will move to Alert Level 2. Alert Level 2 Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. This evening marks the final step in the Government’s reconnecting plan, with visitors from non-visa waiver countries and international students able to apply for a visa to enter New Zealand. Today’s change in border settings marks the final milestone for our reconnecting strategy. This is great news to the tourism industry and economy as we approach spring and summer with people from the Northern hemisphere booking their winter holidays. We have heard optimistic messages from tourism operators who are ready to welcome back international visitors from all over the world. The Government’s $49 million Tourism Kick-start Fund has been put to good use by 481 businesses most affected by the border closure. This fund has helped operators gear up for the return of international visitors. Globally there is pent up demand for people to visit New Zealand. In January, 58% of Australians who would like to visit New Zealand wanted to come within 6 months of borders opening. This number is even higher for our American target market, at 77%. Today also marks the opening of the maritime border to cruise ships, specialist vessels and recreational vessels such as ocean-going yachts. The return of cruise ships is another boost for local communities. Pre-pandemic, their visits were worth in excess of $500 million a year, of which $356 million was spent onshore, providing a valuable economic contribution to our regions. Most cruise visits are during the warmer months of October to April, and summer is our bumper tourism season overall. This means it will be full steam ahead for the industry who can plan with certainty for the rest of the year and beyond. The changes in border settings today meant the resumption of key visa categories including students and visitors. Individuals who are coming to New Zealand to work will primarily use the Accredited Employer Work Visa, which opened on 4 July, to enter the country. Prior to the pandemic, the international education sector was worth several billion dollars to our country and education providers. While we have continued to support the sector with border exceptions through the pandemic, the full resumption of visa processing is great news for our universities, polytechnics and wānanga, and schools, English language schools, and private training establishments. Last updated: 5 July 2022 at 8:02 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. A computer glitch that double counted some cases already reported yesterday resulted in today’s case numbers being incorrectly reported as 13,344. The correct figure is 9,318, which is around the same level as case numbers reported for the past 3 days. A corrected statement is being published on the Ministry website and updated case figures for individual districts are also being published now: COVID-19: Current cases | Ministry of Health (external link) The number of imported cases — people who have recently travelled overseas — was also affected by the same error, and the the correct figure is 275, not the 390 incorrectly published earlier today. The computer glitch has now been corrected. Last updated: 8 July 2022 at 4:50 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. While border restrictions remain in place, other rules and constraints on our day-to-day activities are no longer a requirement. The COVID-19 pandemic still exists globally, even if it has been stamped out here in New Zealand. To keep COVID-19 at bay, we all need to keep practising good hygiene and following the golden rules of Alert Level 1. As we return to life without restrictions, the impacts of COVID-19 will evolve. Our focus will need to shift from keeping ourselves safe from the virus to the economic and social recovery of New Zealand. That’s why we are changing our focus — and our name — to Unite for the recovery. The uniteforrecovery.govt.nz website is a central place for information about a range of support to help New Zealand recover from the impacts of COVID-19. We will continue to update our website with programmes and information about services being provided by a range of central and local government agencies. We’ll also provide details about ways you can contribute to New Zealand’s recovery.  We’ve shown that we can do this. Now let’s do it again. Let’s get Kiwis back on their feet and thriving. Unite for the recovery.  Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Ongoing elimination will remain the Government’s strategy for dealing with COVID-19 to keep New Zealanders safe and support New Zealand’s continued economic recovery. New cases in the community are a realistic possibility given that the global situation has deteriorated significantly. The “Stamp it Out” plan is part of a range of measures the Government is taking to keep New Zealanders safe while also ensuring we are able to keep the economy moving. Our public health measures of personal hygiene, testing, contact tracing, and isolation will be the core of our response to new cases of community transmission. The existing Alert Levels framework will be used but adapted to the specific circumstances, including applying the Alert Levels at a regional or local level. The “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases includes several scenarios and their impacts on individuals, businesses, and other organisations such as schools. Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community [PDF, 49 KB] Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Bookings for seats on Air New Zealand flights into New Zealand will be managed in the short term to ensure the government is able to safely place New Zealanders arriving home into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Air New Zealand has agreed to put a temporary hold on new bookings in the short term, as well as looking at aligning daily arrivals with the capacity available at managed isolation facilities. People who have already booked flights with Air New Zealand will still be able to enter New Zealand subject to availability of quarantine space. “We currently have nearly 6,000 people in our 28 managed isolation facilities, and are scaling up more spaces all the time, but we need to do so safely and new facilities need to be watertight before they are opened,” Air Commodore Darryn Webb said. “Standing up new capacity at the required levels for people to stay in for 14 days of isolation is a hugely complex undertaking; it needs appropriate levels of health and other services nearby, New Zealand Defence Force personnel and extra security to ensure that people are looked after properly and the risk of COVID getting out into the community is minimised. “These temporary measures will ease the current demand on facilities while additional supply is brought on line. In the past three weeks we have brought on capacity of ten new facilities for 2,000 more people, and have a plan to bring on another 750 places in the coming weeks. “The pause on new bookings will be short-term, and allows us to increase supply to match forecasted demand over the coming weeks. “We are closely monitoring the situation and working with Air New Zealand to smooth demand and ensure returnees can be safely housed in managed isolation facilities,” Darryn Webb said. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Due to winter illnesses putting pressure on primary care providers, the Ministry of Health would like to remind employers that they can consider the text messages it sends to people positive with COVID-19 and their household contacts, as proof of needing time off work. Texts from 2328 or 2648 are sent to a COVID-19 positive person and any household contacts they identify. The first text confirms their COVID-19 positive test and the need to isolate, and the second confirms they can leave isolation and return to work if they feel well. Household contacts receive a text saying they are free to leave isolation if their day 7 RAT test is negative. Employers needing proof of staff taking time off work due to COVID-19 illness, or being the household contact, can use these text messages as reliable evidence rather than asking for a traditional GP ‘medical certificate’, which creates additional work for general practice at a particularly busy time of year. COVID-19: Isolating from others | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 5 July 2022 at 8:02 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to only charge New Zealanders who enter temporarily, or who leave New Zealand after regulations come into force. Temporary visa holders would have to pay unless they were ordinarily resident in New Zealand before the border closure, and left before the border closure. The Bill will provide a legal framework to allow the Government to set payment terms, exempt groups of people and waive charges in cases of financial hardship. It will also ensure that: Check the progress of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill through Parliament (external link) The proposed charging structure for managed isolation and quarantine will be: The system has been designed so that it is fair on arrivals and not a barrier for returning to New Zealand, especially for those who might already be experiencing financial stress. It is forecast that more people will be travelling and arriving at the border. The Government has set aside a total of $479 million to pay for the costs of managed isolation facilities until the end of the year. Further details of the charging scheme, and when it will come into force, will be announced soon. Once the regulations come into force, it is proposed New Zealanders, residents and temporary visa holders will have to pay charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] Classes of people, such as the following, are proposed not to be liable for charges: Flowchart: Proposed liability for managed isolation and quarantine charges [PDF, 216 KB] New Zealanders who are currently overseas (that is, who left before the regulations come into force) will not have to pay if they stay in New Zealand for 90 days or longer. If you leave New Zealand after the regulations come into force, it is proposed that you would have to pay for your managed isolation unless you qualify for a waiver or are otherwise exempt. Anyone who needs to come home but cannot afford the charges, will still be able to come home. It is proposed that regulations allow the chief executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment to waive charges in full or in part if they consider that undue financial hardship will be caused by the payment of the charges, or in any circumstances (which could include compassionate grounds) for which they consider a full or partial waiver appropriate. This will allow the chief executive to take into consideration an individual’s full circumstances. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. It is impossible to tell how the situation develops internationally and in New Zealand. Our priority is keeping New Zealand safe. The Government is working to make the system sustainable and manageable for as long as we need it and it is expected the system will be amended as appropriate. Our experience from February and March 2020, before managed isolation and quarantine was introduced, showed that compliance with self-isolation requirements by people arriving in New Zealand was patchy and could not be relied on. Final decisions on this will be announced soon. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Thanks to the fast actions of police and Defence Force staff, a person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. About 1pm on 30 July, a 32-year-old left the Crowne Plaza and was caught by police 100 metres away. Defence Force staff verbally challenged the man as he attempted to follow them out a gate, claiming he was a worker. When asked for identification he allegedly refused, and exited onto Albert St. Aviation Security Service (Avsec) and police were immediately alerted, and 2 Defence Force staff followed the man down Albert St, maintaining a safe distance while doing so until a police officer arrived. The officer was wearing a mask and gloves. The man allegedly failed to stop, and was chased for a short distance and apprehended. The man arrived from Brisbane on 29 July, and has not received his COVID-19 testing yet. His day 3 test is scheduled for 1 August. As the returnee has yet to be tested, the police officer who arrested him is following all necessary precautions. The man has been summonsed to appear in court at a later date. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today’s two positive test results from individuals in managed isolation re-enforce the measures put in place in relation to the assurance needed for returnees leaving after their 14 day stay, says Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine. “As the Director General of Health announced earlier today, COVID-19 tests on day 12 for two individuals in managed isolation came back positive, resulting in the standard response to ensure the safety of those involved,” Air Commodore Webb says. “When we were notified of the positive test results, the on-site operational lead and health staff were notified, who activated our standard operating procedures when a positive test is returned, and the individuals were confined to their room. The hotel facility was also placed into a full lockdown this morning. “All other returnees were also directed to return and remain in their rooms until further notice. This does mean those returnees who received a negative day 12 result will not be allowed to leave after their 14 days, until further advice from the Ministry of Health is received. “Earlier today, those individuals involved were moved from the managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility with the appropriate health (including personal protective equipment) and safety protocols in place to ensure all individuals involved, including staff, remain safe.” Further to the standard protocols in moving the individuals to the quarantine facilities, staff have reviewed security camera footage and a deep clean of all public areas has been completed. As the Director General of Health also spoke to, on-site contact tracing has been initiated for these two individuals, and we will assist in facilitating this where necessary. “Our measures at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine are our last line of defence while we remain in a global pandemic. “As I reiterated yesterday, both publicly and to staff on the ground, no one is to leave without a negative test result on day 12 of their 14 day managed isolation period. “Today’s cases have shown us the importance of ensuring these tests are undertaken, and the results received before authorising anyone to depart a facility.” The following process is used when moving a confirmed positive case from a managed isolation facility to the quarantine facility: I would like to clarify a statement was made earlier today regarding the use of the Stamford Hotel. I can confirm that the Stamford Hotel has not been used as a managed isolation facility. I can also confirm that, as part of our normal process to assess the suitability of a hotel as a facility, the Stamford is being assessed as a facility. However, no final decisions have been made. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 5,312 community cases, 759 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,990. There are now a total of 1,502 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 19. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)  Last updated: 1 August 2022 at 1:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 6,984 community cases and 417 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,422. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 8 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 7 days. Our traditional winter illnesses are circulating in the community along with COVID-19. This is putting significant pressure on all parts of the health system. Health services have been planning for a challenging winter and are working regionally to manage capacity and demand, prioritise urgent care and deliver as much planned care as possible. It helps our health services if everyone does their bit to help us get through winter. The best thing New Zealanders can do to ensure they and their families do not end up in hospital is to be up-to-date with their flu and COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters. That is why the Government this week announced access to free flu vaccines had been widened to an additional 800,000 New Zealanders and second COVID-19 boosters would be available for older New Zealanders. We want to remind people to keep up good public health habits: We also urge whānau to develop a winter plan so family members know what to do if they become unwell. And to get a Winter Wellness Kit together which might include painkillers, a thermometer, tissues, cold and flu medications, enough food and household items for a few days, and a good stock of the regular medicines you or your whanau will need. The Ministry would like to acknowledge the hard work of health workers across the motu, particularly at this time of significant strain on the system. The work you do is important and valued. We urge all New Zealanders, if they do face delays in accessing health services, to be patient and kind to their local health workers. Often delays are due to health professionals treating someone more seriously ill first. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 1 July 2022 at 1:15 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 4,818 community cases and 571 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,750. Last Thursday it was 6,142. There are now a total of 1,726 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 12. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 11 August 2022 at 1:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 8,395 community cases, 689 current hospitalisations, and 17 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,279. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 17 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 13 days. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora – Health NZ are closely monitoring the steady increase in COVID-19 positive hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The increase in hospitalisations also emphasises the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help New Zealand get through winter in good shape. In particular, you should: Now is the time to ensure you are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations, including those who are eligible for a second booster dose, as well as having a flu vaccination, which is free for many people. Wearing a mask remains one of our best measures to reduce transmission against infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. The more layers of protection we put in place — such as mask-wearing, vaccinations, and staying home when sick — the more we reduce the risk of spreading respiratory viruses. Even if you are up to date with your vaccines, or have had COVID-19, continuing to wear a face mask is important in keeping you, your whanau and your community safe. As a general rule, we urge people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. Masking up is particularly important when around more vulnerable members of the community, especially those who are older, those in aged residential care and healthcare settings where appropriate. Wearing a mask also helps protect our healthcare and aged residential care staff, reducing their chances of becoming unwell and supporting them to continue to provide care to those that need it. If you have COVID-19 When to wear a face mask Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 11 July 2022 at 1:20 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 4,126 community cases and 549 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,581. Last Friday it was 5,812. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 609. Last Friday it was 721. There is now a total of 1,733 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 12. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 12 August 2022 at 1:22 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,550. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 19 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 4 days. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora – Health NZ are closely monitoring the continued increase in COVID-19 positive hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The increase in hospitalisations also emphasises the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help New Zealand get through winter in good shape. In particular, people should: Now is also the time to ensure you are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations, including those who are eligible for a second booster dose, as well as having a flu vaccination, which is free for many people. Get your COVID-19 vaccination Wearing a mask remains one of our best measures to reduce transmission against infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. The more layers of protection we put in place — such as mask wearing, vaccinations, and staying home when sick — the more we reduce the risk of spreading respiratory viruses. Even if you are fully vaccinated, or have had COVID-19, continuing to wear a face mask is important in keeping you, your whanau and your community safe. As a general rule, we urge people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. Masking up is particularly important when around more vulnerable members of the community, especially those who are older, those in aged residential care and healthcare settings where appropriate. Wearing a mask also helps protect our healthcare and aged residential care staff, reducing their chances of becoming unwell and supporting them to continue to provide care to those that need it. When to wear a face mask Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 12 July 2022 at 1:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,710. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 29 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 5 days. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora – Health NZ are closely monitoring the continued increase in Covid-19 positive cases and hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The increase in cases and hospitalisations emphasises the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help prevent infection and serious illness. In particular, people should: It is important to ensure to you are up to date with all vaccinations, including COVID-19 vaccinations. Many are now eligible for a second booster dose, and flu vaccinations, which are free for many people. Get your COVID-19 vaccination Wearing a mask remains one of our best measures to reduce transmission against infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. The more layers of protection we put in place - such as mask wearing, vaccinations, and staying home when sick - the more we reduce the risk of spreading respiratory viruses. Even if you’re fully vaccinated, or have had Covid-19, continuing to wear a face mask is important in keeping you, your whanau and your community safe. As a general rule, we urge people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. Masking up is particularly important when around more vulnerable members of the community, especially those who are older, those in aged residential care and healthcare settings where appropriate. Wearing a mask also helps protect our healthcare and aged residential care staff, reducing their chances of becoming unwell and supporting them to continue to provide care to those that need it. When to wear a face mask Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 13 July 2022 at 1:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,826 . Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 23 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 7 days. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora – Health NZ are closely monitoring the continued increase in COVID-19 positive cases and hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The increase in cases and hospitalisations emphasises the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help prevent infection and serious illness. In particular, people should: It is important to ensure to you are up to date with all vaccinations, including COVID-19 vaccinations. Many are now eligible for a second booster dose, and flu vaccinations, which are free for many people. Get your COVID-19 vaccination Wearing a mask remains one of our best measures to reduce transmission against infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. The more layers of protection we put in place — such as mask wearing, vaccinations, and staying home when sick — the more we reduce the risk of spreading respiratory viruses. Even if you are up to date with your vaccinations, or have had COVID-19, continuing to wear a face mask is important in keeping you, your whānau and your community safe. As a general rule, we urge people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. Masking up is particularly important when around more vulnerable members of the community, especially those who are older, those in aged residential care and healthcare settings where appropriate. Wearing a mask also helps protect our healthcare and aged residential care staff, reducing their chances of becoming unwell and supporting them to continue to provide care to those that need it. When to wear a face mask Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 14 July 2022 at 1:20 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 3,387 community cases and 536 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,230 — last Monday, it was 5,288. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 570 — last Monday, it was 660. There are now a total of 1,750 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 14. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 15 August 2022 at 1:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 10,470 community cases, 773 current hospitalisations, and 16 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,994. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 16 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 11 days. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora – Health NZ are closely monitoring the continued increase in COVID-19 positive cases and hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The increase in cases and hospitalisations emphasises the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help prevent infection and serious illness. In particular, people should stay home if they are unwell, take a rapid antigen test (RAT) and upload the result on My Covid Record, and isolate if positive or while still symptomatic. If you’re heading out to pick up free RATs and masks, please check the Healthpoint website to find your nearest participating pharmacy as not all pharmacies are providing this service. People can also continue to request free COVID-19 RAT kits online. It is important to ensure you are up to date with all vaccinations, including COVID-19 vaccinations. Many are now eligible for a second booster dose, and flu vaccinations, which are free for many people. More about COVID-19 vaccine boosters | Ministry of Health (external link) More about flu vaccines | Ministry of Health (external link) Wearing a mask remains one of the best measures to reduce transmission of infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. The more layers of protection people put in place — such as mask wearing, vaccinations, and staying home when sick — the more they reduce the risk of spreading respiratory viruses. Even if you’re fully vaccinated, or have had COVID-19, continuing to wear a face mask is important in keeping you, your whanau and your community safe. As a general rule, the Ministry urges people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. Masking up is particularly important when around more vulnerable members of the community, especially those who are older, those in aged residential care and healthcare settings where appropriate. From Monday 18 July 2022, the access criteria for three antiviral treatments for COVID-19 will be widened to include a wider group of people at risk of severe illness from COVID-19 infection. This includes all people aged 75 years and over and those who have been admitted previously to an Intensive Care Unit directly as a result of COVID-19. Nirmatrelvir with ritonavir (branded as Paxlovid), molnupiravir (branded as Lagevrio) and remdesivir, an infusion treatment (branded as Veklury) are antivirals used in the community and hospitals to treat people with early COVID-19 at risk of severe illness. These antivirals reduce the risk of severe illness, which helps takes pressure off our health system. Among other things, this means GPs will be able to provide "back pocket" prescriptions so that people at risk of acute respiratory illnesses can have their prescription ready should they test positive and can then start taking the medicine promptly. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 18 July 2022 at 1:51 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 7,612 community cases, 797 current hospitalisations, and 22 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,689. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 22 people with COVID-19. They include 1 death from March, 2 deaths from April, 2 deaths from May and 2 deaths from June, which are being reported following completion of the cause of death assessment. In some instances it can take some time for the full clinical assessments to be finalised. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora —Health NZ are closely monitoring the continued increase in COVID-19 positive cases and hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The case, death and hospitalisation numbers emphasise the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help prevent infection and serious illness. In particular, people should stay home if they are unwell, take a rapid antigen test (RAT) and upload the result on My Covid Record, and isolate if positive or while still symptomatic. If you are heading out to pick up free RATs and masks, please check the Healthpoint website to find your nearest participating pharmacy — as not all pharmacies are providing this service. People can also continue to request free COVID-19 RAT kits online. It is important to ensure you are up to date with all vaccinations, including COVID-19 vaccinations. Many people are now eligible for a second booster dose, and flu vaccinations, which are free for many people. We want to remind people to keep up good public health habits to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and winter illnesses such as the flu. Simple measures can make a big difference, so we encourage people to wear a mask, physically distance, wash or sanitise your hands regularly, and stay home if you are unwell. Wearing a mask remains one of the best measures to reduce transmission of infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. As a general rule, the Ministry of Health urges people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. If you have cold and flu symptoms, it is important to get tested for COVID-19 and self-report the result — whether positive or negative — on My COVID Record. This helps us to understand the spread of COVID-19 and where to direct our public health resources.  Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 20 July 2022 at 12:48 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 10,424 community cases, 788 current hospitalisations, and 21 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,528. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 21 people with COVID-19. They include 1 death from April and 1 death from June, which are being reported following completion of the cause of death assessment. In some instances, it can take some time for the full clinical assessments to be finalised. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora — Health NZ are closely monitoring the continued increase in COVID-19 positive cases and hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The case, death and hospitalisation numbers emphasise the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help prevent infection and serious illness. In particular, people should stay home if they are unwell, take a rapid antigen test (RAT) and upload the result on My Covid Record, and isolate if positive or while still symptomatic. If you are heading out to pick up free RATs and face masks, please check the Healthpoint website (external link) to find your nearest participating pharmacy — as not all pharmacies are providing this service. People can also continue to request free COVID-19 RAT kits online (external link) . It is important to ensure you are up to date with all vaccinations, including COVID-19 vaccinations. Many people are now eligible for a second booster dose (external link) , and flu vaccinations, which are free for many people (external link) . Today we are reporting 2 community cases in Auckland with the Omicron BA.2.75 subvariant, the first time this subvariant has been detected in the community in New Zealand. Both cases are linked to known imported cases and are isolating at home. This is in addition to the 6 BA.2.75 reported cases previously reported, which are all associated with recent travel overseas. The Ministry of Health regularly assesses the latest evidence on variants to ensure that our public health settings are appropriate. At this stage, there is no evidence that BA.2.75 requires a shift in public health settings already in place to manage other Omicron variants. BA.2.75 is a recently identified second-generation subvariant of BA.2, the dominant variant circulating in New Zealand at this stage. BA.2.75 has only been recently identified as distinct from BA.2, and evidence on its transmissibility, immune evasiveness and severity is still preliminary and emerging. We do know BA.2.75 has some characteristics that look like they may enhance its ability to evade immunity, similar to the BA.4 and BA.5 Omicron subvariants, and there is some early evidence overseas that it may be slightly more transmissible than BA.2. There is no current evidence that it leads to more severe disease, although assessing the evidence is at a very early stage. We want to remind people to keep up good public health habits to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and winter illnesses such as the flu. Simple measures can make a big difference, so we encourage people to wear a mask, physically distance, wash or sanitise your hands regularly, and stay home if you are unwell. Wearing a mask remains one of the best measures to reduce transmission of infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. As a general rule, the Ministry of Health urges people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. If you have cold and flu symptoms, it is important to get tested for COVID-19 and self-report the result — whether positive or negative — on My COVID Record. This helps us to understand the spread of COVID-19 and where to direct our public health resources. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 20 July 2022 at 12:47 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 7,113 community cases and 738 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,683 — last Tuesday, it was 8,335. There are now a total of 1,563 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 22. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)  Last updated: 2 August 2022 at 1:03 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 10,320 community cases, 744 current hospitalisations, and 34 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,367. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 34 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 6 days. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 20 July 2022 at 1:05 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 9,953 community cases, 767 current hospitalisations, and 32 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,161. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 32 people with COVID-19. These deaths occurred in the period since 26th March. This update is provided each Thursday. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 21 July 2022 at 1:08 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 8,728 community cases, 759 current hospitalisations, and 26 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 8,913. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 26 people with COVID-19. These deaths occurred in the period since 26 April. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 22 July 2022 at 1:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): Māori (percentage of eligible people): Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 8 cases in hospital: 24 new community cases: 47 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 23 January 2022 at 2:03 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today 31 previously reported deaths have been re- classified as unrelated to COVID-19. These deaths occurred more than 28 days after these people were reported as COVID-19 cases and were initially thought to be COVID-19 related, however their formal cause of death classification has been deemed as unrelated to COVID-19. Therefore, our new total of publicly reported COVID-19 deaths is 1,431. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 12 people with COVID-19. All of these deaths occurred since 17 June. The 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 4 were from Northland, 1 was from the Auckland region, 1 was from Bay of Plenty, 2 were from Taranaki, 1 was from MidCentral, 1 was from the Wellington region, 1 was from Canterbury, and 1 was from Southern. 2 people were in their 50s, 7 were in their 80s and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 7 were male and 5 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. On the Matariki public holiday tomorrow, 24 June 2022, there will be no update. There will be the usual 1pm updates published over the long weekend on Saturday and Sunday, and Saturday’s update will include the figures for Friday. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 23 June 2022 at 1:29 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand.  Today we are reporting 6,910 community cases, 836 current hospitalisations, and 16 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 8,498. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 16 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 3 days. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 25 July 2022 at 1:27 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand.  Today we are reporting 9,256 community cases, and 822 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 8,335. There are now a total of 1,396 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average of the increase in deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 17. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 26 July 2022 at 1:17 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 8,730 community cases, and 808 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 8,111. There are now a total of 1,427 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average of the increase in deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 17. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. Speakers:  Watch the media conference | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 27 July 2022 at 1:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 11 people with COVID-19. They take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,472 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 1 was from MidCentral, 2 were from Taranaki, 1 was from the Hutt Valley, 3 were from Canterbury, and 1 was from South Canterbury. 2 people were in their 60s, 2 were in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s and 4 were over 90. Of these people, 5 were male and 6 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 27 June 2022 at 1:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 7,627 community cases, and 827 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,776. There are now a total of 1,455 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average of the increase in deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 18. (This update is provided each Thursday) Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)  Last updated: 28 July 2022 at 1:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 8,028 community cases, 383 current hospitalisations, and 16 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 5,480 — last Tuesday it was 4,878. The increase in case numbers today is not unusual after a long weekend. It will take more time before we are able to determine if this is part of a trend. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 16 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred within the past 7 days. They take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,488 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 4 were from the Auckland region, 2 were from Waikato, 2 were from Hawke’s Bay, 1 was from MidCentral, 2 were from Taranaki, 1 was from Wairarapa, 1 from Wellington, 2 were from Canterbury, and 1 was from the Southern region. One person was aged between 10 and 19 years, 3 were in their 70s, 6 were in their 80s and 6 were over 90. Of these people, 11 were male and 5 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer App is evolving to better reflect the current phase of the pandemic response. The changes made to the app will better reflect its current use and contribution. It will still work, but the registration feature will be deleted, along with any personal information shared by people when they first registered for the app. Contact tracers can still use other data sources in the app if needed. NZ COVID Tracer app evolving | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 28 June 2022 at 1:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 7,605 community cases and 799 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,618. There are now a total of 1,479 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The average increase in deaths each day attributable to COVID-19, over the past 7 days, is now 18. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)  Last updated: 29 July 2022 at 1:09 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 7,829 community cases, 395 current hospitalisations, and 15 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 5,808 — last Wednesday it was 4,873. The higher number of cases in the last 2 days, compared to last week, is not unusual after a long weekend. It will take more time before we are able to determine if this is part of a trend. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 15 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred within the past 9 days. They take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,503 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 3 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 1 was from Lakes, 2 were from Bay of Plenty, 2 were from Taranaki, 1 was from the Wellington region, 1 was from Nelson Marlborough, 1 was from Canterbury, 1 was from West Coast, and 2 were from the Southern region. One person was in their 20s, 1 was in their 50s, 5 were in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s and 5 were over 90. Of these people, 6 were male and 9 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 29 June 2022 at 1:14 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 6,440 community cases and 704 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,355 — last Wednesday it was 8,111. There are now a total of 1,589 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 22. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 1:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 7,423 community cases and 411 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,114. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 19 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 7 days. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,522 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: Two people were in their 50s; 3 were in their 60s; 1 was in their 70s; 6 were in their 80s; and 7 were aged over 90. Of these people, 11 were women and 8 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 30 June 2022 at 2:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 10,205 community cases, 734 hospitalisations and 9 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, today's seven-day rolling average is 13,218, while the seven-day rolling average of cases as at last Monday was 16,102. A reminder that from 11:59pm tonight, there is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. As restrictions around the pass ease, it is important for people to continue to follow public health advice to stay at home, away from school or work if you’re feeling unwell. Another way to protect you and your whanau is to get vaccinated if you haven’t already done so. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and getting boosted is an important way people can protect themselves, their whanau and their friends from the virus. Please if you are due for a vaccination, whether it be a second shot or booster, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 9 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the past 3 days. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 405 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 20. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, one person was from the Auckland region, three from Waikato, two from Lakes, two from the Wellington region, and one from Southern. One person was in their 50s, one in their 60s, one in their 70s, two in their 80s, and four were over 90. Five were men and four were women. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 4 April 2022 at 1:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 6,498 community cases and 487 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,046. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 8 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 2 days. A second COVID-19 booster is now available for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19 – a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. In addition, a second booster is available for all people aged 50 years and over and health, aged care and disability workers aged 30 years and over. Full eligibility criteria for second boosters | Ministry of Health (external link) Free flu shots are now available to all children aged between 3 and 12, as well as anyone with serious mental health and addiction needs. This is in addition to Māori and Pacific people aged 55 and over, anyone else aged 65 and over, pregnant people and those with certain underlying conditions. Full list of conditions | Ministry of Health (external link) People can book their flu vaccine at a pharmacy. Book a COVID-19 vaccine: Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 4 July 2022 at 1:15 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics | Ministry of Health (external link) Today we are reporting 5,296 community cases and 605 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 5,812 – last Friday it was 7618. There are now a total of 1,624 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 20. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 8 August 2022 at 8:03 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The rise in COVID-19 cases today is not unexpected as New Zealand moves towards the winter peak for respiratory illness, including COVID-19. In addition, it is not unusual for reported cases to rise following a weekend. It is encouraging that people are uploading their test results in My COVID Record, and the Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora Health New Zealand would like to remind people to continue to do this. This is also a timely reminder for those eligible to get their booster vaccinations, and for those not yet fully immunised to start and/or complete their COVID-19 vaccination course. People should also get an influenza vaccination if they are not yet immunised. People are also reminded to stay home if they are unwell, regardless of their COVID-19 test result. Staying home when unwell is one of the most important public health measures to prevent transmission of all respiratory illnesses. The Omicron subvariant BA.2.75 has been detected in New Zealand for the first time. The Ministry regularly assesses the latest evidence on variants to ensure that our public health settings are appropriate. At this stage, there is no evidence that BA.2.75 requires a shift in public health settings already in place to manage other Omicron variants. On Friday afternoon, analysis of whole genome sequencing confirmed 2 cases in New Zealand with BA.2.75. Before testing positive for COVID-19, both cases had recently travelled from India, where this subvariant has been detected. BA.2.75 is a recently identified second-generation subvariant of BA.2, the dominant variant circulating in New Zealand at this stage. BA.2.75 has only been recently identified as distinct from BA.2, and evidence on its transmissibility, immune evasiveness and severity is still preliminary and emerging. We do know BA.2.75 has some characteristics that look like they may enhance its ability to evade immunity, similar to the BA.4 and BA.5 Omicron subvariants, and there is some early evidence overseas that it may be slightly more transmissible than BA.2. There is no current evidence that it leads to more severe disease, although assessing the evidence is at a very early stage. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 24 people with COVID-19. These deaths occurred in the period since 14 April. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,591 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 15. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 5 were from Auckland region, 3 were from Waikato, 4 from Bay of Plenty, 1 was from Lakes, 1 was from Hawke’s Bay, 1 was from MidCentral, 4 were from Wellington region, 4 were from Canterbury, and 1 was from Southern. Three were in their 40s, 5 were in their 70s, 7 were in their 80s, and 9 were aged over 90. Of these people, 14 were women and 10 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 5 July 2022 at 1:14 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 10,290 community cases and 522 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,591. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 12 people with COVID-19. These deaths occurred in the period since 1 July. During the past 2 weeks, there has been a significant increase in COVID-19 cases on top of a rise in seasonal colds, flu and other respiratory illnesses. Wearing a mask remains one of our best measures to reduce transmission against infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. Masking up is particularly important when you are going to be around our more vulnerable members of the community, such as in healthcare settings and in aged residential care. The more layers of protection we put in place around the vulnerable, such as mask wearing, having our vaccinations, and staying away from them when sick, the less risk there is of them getting seriously ill. If you are visiting loved ones in hospital or aged residential care, our request is to, please, be patient and kind to each other and staff. They are working as hard as they can to protect some of the more vulnerable members of the community. Wearing a mask also helps protect our healthcare and aged residential care staff, reducing their chances of becoming unwell and supporting them to continue to provide care to those that need it. Even if you are fully vaccinated, or have had viruses in the past, continuing to wear a face mask is important in keeping you, your whanau and your community safe. We are continuing to urge people to mask up on public transport, in indoor settings like retail stores and supermarkets, in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 6 July 2022 at 1:49 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 10,710 community cases and 554 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 8,013. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 15 people with COVID-19. These deaths occurred in the period since 28 June. Today’s new cases of COVID-19 show the recent rise in case numbers remains steady. We are continuing to keep our response to the current community outbreak of COVID-19 under review and will adapt it as the outbreak and pandemic evolve, and as part of our resurgence planning. With the school holidays starting on Friday many people will have plans to get away and relax with whānau and friends — if you are going away, please remember to have plans in place in the event you contract COVID-19 or are identified as a Household Contact of a case. You would need to self-isolate and likely remain wherever you test positive or become a household contact, so there may be extra costs involved in paying for additional accommodation and changing your travel plans. If you have used your own vehicle to travel, you can travel back to your home to isolate (providing you are well enough to drive), taking public health measures to ensure you don’t infect anyone on your way home — such as maintaining social distance (distancing yourself from others), wearing your mask correctly, making sure you keep your hands clean and dry and using self-service petrol stations if you need to refuel your vehicle. However, if you have used public transport or travelled between islands, you won’t be able to travel to isolate at your home. So, it is important you have a plan and the ability to isolate where you are holidaying if you need to do so. As with all variants of Omicron, the public health advice remains the same. Getting your booster remains one of the best defences against COVID-19. Stay home if you’re unwell, get tested if you’re symptomatic, wash and dry your hands, cover coughs and sneezes, wear a mask in crowded or poorly ventilated indoor public settings and get vaccinated. For guidance if you or someone you know tests positive or becomes a Household Contact, visit the Ministry of Health website. If you become unwell or test positive for COVID-19 while travelling | health.govt.nz (external link) For more information on mask use at Orange, visit the Unite against COVID-19 website. When to wear a mask (This update is provided each Thursday) Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 7 July 2022 at 1:18 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 4,006 community cases and 654 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 5,288. Last Monday it was 6,990. There are now a total of 1,638 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 14. COVID-19’s vaccination data is currently undergoing a technical update, which will mean some changes in reported vaccination rates. These will be routinely published from Wednesday (10 August), in line with our normal weekly reporting cycle. These changes are the result of Te Whatu Ora – Health New Zealand moving to using 2021 Health System User (HSU) data, replacing the 2020 HSU data that has been previously used. As a result, we will be adding a larger group of New Zealanders to the list of those who are eligible for COVID-19 vaccinations, as part of improvements to the vaccination programme. Moving to the 2021 HSU data will mean a technical decrease in reported vaccination rates overall because of the larger number of eligible New Zealanders being identified. However, they will make no difference to the total number of New Zealanders vaccinated, which remains the same and will continue to increase as more people are vaccinated. This decrease in the overall vaccine rate is because, while we have the same number of people vaccinated, we are now dividing that number by a larger group of eligible people. This larger group now includes people who have used health services during the 2021 calendar year, that were not captured in the 2020 HSU data. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 8 August 2022 at 1:08 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Today we are reporting 13,344 community cases and 587 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 8,313. We are sadly reporting the deaths of 23 people with COVID-19. The majority (18) of these deaths occurred in the current month; 4 others occurred in May and June. There is 1 death from January last year now being reported following the cause of death assessment now being completed.  In some instances it can take some time for the full clinical assessments to be finalised. Today’s new cases of COVID-19 show a further rise in case numbers. We are continuing to keep our response to the current community outbreak of COVID-19 under review and will adapt it as the outbreak and pandemic evolve, and as part of our resurgence planning. As every parent well knows, winter means cold weather but also more days indoors where our tamariki can more easily pick up and pass on germs, colds and flu. It is normal for children to have 8-10 viral illnesses each year, which will likely include coughs, runny noses and intermittent fevers.  But with so many respiratory illnesses circulating, the Ministry is encouraging New Zealanders to pay extra attention to their children’s health, and their own, over the coldest months of the year. Here are some winter wellness tips to help keep children healthy: Following these tips not just for children but for all of us can help us all fight off seasonal illnesses and get through the next few months in good shape. Stay well this winter, Aotearoa! Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 8 July 2022 at 1:20 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 5,169 community cases and 599 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,938. Last Wednesday it was 6,355. There are now a total of 1,705 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 15. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 10 August 2022 at 1:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 data and statistics Today we are reporting 5,939 community cases and 634 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 5,120. Last Monday it was 6,683. There are now a total of 1,688 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 16. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Last updated: 9 August 2022 at 1:40 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. For the most up-to-date information about our managed isolation and quarantine facilities visit the managed isolation and quarantine website. Get information about:  New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. Last updated: 29 October 2020 Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest information on managed isolation charges (external link) The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading today, and the charges will come into force as soon as regulations are finalised. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill and its supporting regulations will introduce a new charging system for managed isolation to balance the rights of New Zealanders to return home and help reduce pressure on the system. The proposed charges are: There will be no charge for children under the age of 3. These charges are GST inclusive. Charging will start soon after the regulations come into force. This will happen after the Bill is given Royal Assent. The start date of the charging regime will be published on www.miq.govt.nz (external link) as soon as it is confirmed. The following exemptions are proposed: Waiver applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is proposed that waivers will be available in cases of undue financial hardship and other special circumstances. These special circumstances could include: People will be able to apply for waivers once the regulations are in force. Information about the process will be available on www.miq.govt.nz at that time. Returnees who need to pay will get an invoice at the end of their stay in managed isolation and will generally have 90 days to pay. Information about how to pay the fee will be provided on the invoice. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of masks as part of our ongoing response to COVID-19. We have seen elsewhere that masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 where there are cases of community transmission. We should all now prepare to use masks before there may be a need to use them. You do not need to wear masks at Alert Level 1 — we just need to be prepared. Information and guidance on wearing masks Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Currently, there are no further health media conferences scheduled. The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish daily updates on New Zealand's COVID-19 cases, which you can find on its website. Updates on case numbers from the Ministry of Health (external link) Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The Government has announced an end to the requirement for border workers and corrections staff to be fully vaccinated. This will come into place from 2 July 2022. Corrections staff in prisons are 100% vaccinated, and as of 23 June 2022, 97% of active border workers were fully vaccinated. Vaccine mandates are under continuous review by the government and will be removed when it is safe to do so. Vaccination has been one of our strongest and most effective defences to protect against COVID-19. It has helped protect our border and corrections workers and their whānau. The requirement has served its purpose well. The risk COVID-19 poses at the border is much lower than it was previously. Along with high rates of vaccination among border workers, the number of passengers arriving by air with COVID-19 is less than 3%. Corrections staff will also no longer be included in the Vaccination Order. Currently, all corrections staff in prisons are fully vaccinated and 72% of people in prison have been fully vaccinated. How we manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa continues to change. As certain protections are no longer required we will remove them. We have high levels of vaccination in the general population and we have increasing protection in the population from prior infection, so tools like vaccine mandates in most settings are no longer necessary. Corrections and border workers have played an extremely important role throughout the pandemic. We thank them for their dedication and commitment to keeping us all safe. The Vaccination Order remains in place for health and disability workers as they continue to have close interactions with people who are at high risk of serious illness from COVID-19. The settings for health and disability workers are reviewed regularly. Last updated: 4 July 2022 at 1:10 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 11-20 of 1043 updates 02 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Jul 2022 New Zealand’s international border opens to all visitors, including from non-visa waiver countries, and international students from 11:59pm, 31 July 2022. 31 Jul 2022 The same vaccination rules for passengers arriving by air will apply to arrivals on cruise ships and recreational vessels such as ocean-going yachts. 29 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1001-1010 of 1043 updates 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1011-1020 of 1043 updates 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020  12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1021-1030 of 1043 updates 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1031-1040 of 1043 updates 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 1041-1043 of 1043 updates 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 21-30 of 1043 updates 21 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Jul 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 12pm. 18 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Jul 2022 The Government is rolling out additional measures to help tackle the second Omicron wave and record levels of flu to ease pressure on the health system. 14 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Jul 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 12:30pm. 13 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 31-40 of 1043 updates 12 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Jul 2022 A computer glitch that double counted some cases already reported yesterday resulted in today’s case numbers being incorrectly reported. 08 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Jul 2022 Employers can consider text messages the Ministry of Health sends to people with COVID-19 and their household contacts as proof of needing time off work. 04 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 41-50 of 1043 updates 30 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Jun 2022 New Zealand will remain at Orange, but enhanced measures for schools and a change in reinfection advice will help reduce the spread of COVID-19. 29 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jun 2022 From 2 July 2022, the Government is removing the requirement for border and correction workers to be fully vaccinated. 28 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jun 2022 The Government is ramping up access to free flu vaccines and COVID-19 booster shots. 23 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Jun 2022 Wearing a mask plays an important part in reducing the spread of winter illness. 22 Jun 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 12:20pm. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Latest news about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. Displaying 51-60 of 1043 updates 21 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Jun 2022 Border workers will no longer be required to undergo COVID-19 testing from 1 July 2022. 16 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 16 Jun 2022 Travellers to New Zealand will no longer need a COVID-19 pre-departure test from 11:59pm Monday 20 June 2022. 15 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Jun 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 13 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 21 March 2022 at 9:00 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. There is a media briefing at noon on 4 August 2022. Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Last updated: 4 August 2022 at 11:29 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements Last updated: 9 June 2022 at 3:25 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Follow us on social media: We are here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have 2 simple rules for a safe social community: Comments and messages submitted to our social media pages may be used for reporting purposes. Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) Last updated: 8 June 2022 at 1:44 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. What you need to know Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms, and what we know about Long COVID. Advice for people who are at higher risk of more severe illness if they get COVID-19. We all need to be prepared to self-isolate if we get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up habits such as wearing a face mask and staying home when sick. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. Emergency services operate at all traffic light settings. If you need urgent help in an emergency, call 111 immediately even if you and your household are isolating. This section contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people. Find the latest information and advice for whānau, hapū, and iwi Māori. Find the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities, including translations. Misinformation about COVID-19 works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. Last updated: 10 August 2022 at 5:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants and symptoms. Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Omicron is in our community. There are 3 phases to our response. Find out what this means for you. Last updated: 25 May 2022 at 10:54 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Symptoms can include one or more of the following: Less common symptoms may include: These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call: How to get a COVID-19 test While you have symptoms: If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms.  You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. This includes 1 follow-up check with your healthcare provider if required during those 6 weeks, once your acute episode of COVID-19 is over. After you have had the follow-up check, if you require one, and you no longer have acute COVID-19, you will then need to pay for your future visits to your doctor and prescription dispensing fees, just as you would for other medical conditions, even if it is within the 6-week period. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since a previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms) and: If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster Post COVID-19 condition | World Health Organization (external link) Long COVID | Health Navigator (external link) Last updated: 4 August 2022 at 1:57 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. At Phase 3, the focus is on safely managing COVID-19 at home. This means we can keep our hospital beds free for people who are vulnerable and need medical treatment. There are thousands of new cases every day. Most people will self-manage at home. Health and social services will focus on families and communities that have the highest needs. You should only get a COVID-19 test if: Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms and Household Contacts. You can order RATs online or over the phone, to pick up at a site near you. You should record your RAT result — even if it is negative. You can record your result online through My Covid Record or by calling 0800 222 478 . How to get a COVID-19 test How to report your RAT result If you test positive, you will need to isolate for 7 days. If you have COVID-19 If you are a Household Contact, you will need to isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive, until they complete their 7 days of isolation. You will need to test on Day 3 and Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to begin 7 days of isolation as a case. Household Contacts Close Contacts do not need to isolate, but you should monitor for symptoms for 10 days. Close Contacts Critical workers can keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Critical workers  Self-service tools are available for people to provide information for contact tracing and case investigation. If you test positive you will be sent a text with a link to complete an online form to identify high-risk locations and people you have had contact with. The Ministry of Health will focus on supporting people who do not have access to or are not confident using technology. Bluetooth tracing continues to be used. Locations of interest will not be published during Phase 3. How contact tracing works  If you are self-isolating at home, you can get help if you need essential supplies like food or medicine. If your symptoms worsen, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. They will tell you what you need to do next. Vulnerable people will have access to clinical care to help them self-isolate safely. Help if you are self isolating Financial support COVID-19 Support Payment for businesses | ird.govt.nz (external link) Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities.   There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. COVID-19 is still spreading in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children Last updated: 30 May 2022 at 4:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | World Health Organization (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants and has a framework to prepare and respond to any new variants of concern. COVID-19 variants | Ministry of Health (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. It is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. Compared to Delta, Omicron: Omicron, like other variants, continues to change. New Omicron sub-variants BA.2.12.1, BA.4 and BA.5, which are circulating in New Zealand, are likely to replace BA.2 as the main sub-variants in New Zealand. BA.2.75 has recently arrived in New Zealand. It is a second-generation subvariant of BA.2. Initial evidence suggests it may be slightly more transmissible, but assessing BA.2.75 is still at an early stage. Although there continue to be new variants of Omicron, there does not appear to have been a change in the severity of the disease due to these variants. The public health settings already in place to manage current Omicron variants are appropriate for managing the subvariants present in our community. To identify which variant a person has, there needs to be whole-genome sequencing. This can happen through a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. We have a system in place to identify any new variants arriving in New Zealand. People who arrive from overseas and test positive with a rapid antigen test (RAT) should have a follow-up PCR test to identify the variant they have. COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 There are m edicines to treat COVID-19 available for people who are at risk of developing a serious illness. When taken early on in your COVID-19 illness, they can help you get better faster and stay out of hospital. Medicines to treat COVID-19 Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help monitor COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of symptomatic people in the community. Wastewater testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) The Institute of Environmental Science and Research (ESR) tests wastewater around the country. An interactive dashboard shares ESR’s wastewater science. It can help you track potential COVID-19 risk in your area. COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | Institute of Environmental Science and Research (external link) Last updated: 22 July 2022 at 10:44 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. I am looking for... The COVID-19 Healthline kaimahi support people with information and advice about COVID-19. This includes clinical advice about symptoms and non-clinical advice about testing locations. Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Interpreter services are available. There may be support available for employers, employees and those who have lost their job or had their income reduced, or assistance to buy food. Financial support Last updated: 7 July 2022 at 1:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples, disabled people and youth. Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people. Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. Popular topics You may need a test if: If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 312 KB] You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. You can also get free advice from the Disability Healthline. Call 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you have mobility or other accessibility challenges and are unable to leave your home to get to a collection site, you can arrange to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Report your positive or negative RAT result by phone or online. Reporting a result means you can get extra support if you need it while self-isolating. Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. Report your positive RAT result online or over the phone. If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with trusted, up-to-date information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so that you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . You need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and try to avoid contact with people you live with. The people you live with also need to isolate. Start counting from Day 0. This is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive (whichever came first). Use the household isolation timeline tool (external link) Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. Advice for carers on supporting someone who has COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. You can get a booster now if: If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Some people who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. Vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised | health.govt.nz (external link) A second booster is recommended for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. We will update this page with information about who is eligible and how to book in the next few weeks. To book your vaccination or get advice: Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, let your support provider know that you have COVID-19 so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow appropriate infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | Ministry of Health (external link) If you need urgent support and your support worker or carer is unavailable, you can call the dedicated disability helpline on 0800 11 12 13 . This could be if: The 0800 11 12 13 service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, from 8am to 8pm. A person with experience or knowledge of disability will answer the call and assess the urgency of your situation and provide advice or assistance. After 8pm, calls will be answered by a trained member of the Healthline team. The call centre will work with you to determine what needs to happen, how urgent your situation is and if medical or other emergency services are needed. As always, if there is an emergency, or there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people, an impairment, disability, or physical or mental health condition can mean wearing a mask is not possible. If you have a legitimate reason that means wearing a face mask is not suitable, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can also request a card by calling 0800 11 12 13 or by texting 8988. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass | Ministry of Health (external link) Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. We are protecting Aoteroa New Zealand from COVID-19 using a system called the 'traffic lights'. Its official name is the COVID-19 Protection Framework. Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing. Last updated: 9 August 2022 at 11:04 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If your support worker gets COVID-19, the disability support organisation they are from is responsible for finding a replacement. In some cases, they may only be able to provide essential services while your regular support worker recovers. Your support provider will check in with you about any changes. If you would prefer that a family member or friend support you instead, discuss this with your disability support organisation. If you usually get support from a family member or friend, or you individually contract support people, make a plan for alternate support in case they get COVID-19. Options could include: Needs Assessment and Service Coordination services | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live in the same home as your carer, and they are well enough to continue providing care, they can do so. They will need appropriate infection prevention control and personal protective equipment. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) If you receive support in your home, it is important to have a support plan. This should include your important health information and care routines. If your regular carer becomes unwell and you need emergency care, this plan can be shared with the new carer. This means your care and support can continue safely. Your disability support provider can help you create a plan. You can also use the emergency care planning tools available on the Carers New Zealand website. Emergency care planning tools | carers.net.nz (external link) There are a few things to consider, specific to COVID-19: If you need urgent support and your support worker or carer is unavailable, you can call the dedicated COVID-19 disability helpline on 0800 11 12 13 . This could be if: The service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Between 8am to 8pm a person with experience or knowledge of disability will answer the call and assess the urgency of your situation and provide advice or assistance. After 8pm, calls will be answered by a trained member of the Healthline team. The call centre will work with you to determine what needs to happen, how urgent your situation is and if medical or other emergency services are needed. As always, if there is an emergency, or there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. Last updated: 9 August 2022 at 11:03 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The best way to protect you, your whānau and your community from COVID-19 is to get vaccinated. Karawhiua provides trusted and up-to-date information on the vaccine for whānau and Māori communities. Be a doer! Karawhiua (external link) I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. At Red, there are restrictions on indoor gatherings at marae to help limit the spread of COVID-19, and protect the safety and wellbeing of whānau, hapū, and iwi . It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether to allow gatherings and whether gatherings are held inside or outside. Advice for marae at Red At Orange, g atherings at marae can go ahead. There are no restrictions on indoor or outdoor gatherings. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. Gatherings at Orange He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB]  If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Check out free services and resources Funding and support is available. Find more information from Te Puni Kōkiri. Funding and support | tpk.govt.nz (external link) Ruthie was 7 months hapū, with her baby Hope, when she contracted COVID-19 last year at a tangihanga. She shares her experience of being the first hapū māmā with COVID-19 in Aotearoa and her thoughts on the vaccine. Ruthie’s story is part of the Te Puni Kōkiri-led Karawhiua campaign which encourages whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities to make an informed choice about getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Watch Ruthie’s full story at Karawhiua (external link) Last updated: 24 April 2022 at 11:12 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information in Pacific languages: Check out the range of free services and resources available to you It's time to dial up the talanoa, helping our youth to navigate COVID-19 conversations with their parents, family and peers. Let's Talanoa with Dr Lesina Nakhid-Schuster and Rokalani Lavea. The Ministry for Pacific Peoples has created an educational video about the Pfizer vaccine that is also available in 9 Pacific languages. When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. The vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 12 and over. It will help to protect Aotearoa from COVID-19. Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Get your COVID-19 vaccination Make sure you get the latest news and updates from reliable sources. Last updated: 16 January 2022 at 11:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people. Popular topics For free health advice, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items, call the COVID-19 welfare phone line on 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. Information about our response to COVID-19 — including vaccination, self-isolation guidance and traffic light settings — is available in Large Print and audio. Large Print and audio You may need a test if: If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. You can also get free advice from Healthline — call 0800 358 5453 If you cannot leave your home, you may be able to to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Report your positive or negative RAT result by phone or online. Reporting a result means you can get extra support if you need it while self-isolating. Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. Report your positive RAT result online or over the phone. If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with trusted, up-to-date information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . You need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and try to avoid contact with people you live with. The people you live with also need to isolate. Start counting from Day 0. This is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive (whichever came first). Use the household isolation timeline tool (external link) Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. Find information on the Health Navigator website about keeping safe, testing and getting support. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. People aged 18 and over can get a booster if it has been 3 months since they completed their primary course. For most people, this is 2 doses. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition To book your vaccination or get advice, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26. Some people who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. Vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised | health.govt.nz (external link)  Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, tell your support provider so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. You still need to order through the Request free COVID-19 RAT kits website. Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) Some people cannot wear masks. If you have a legitimate reason for not wearing a face mask, such as a disability or a physical or mental health condition, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. We are protecting Aoteroa New Zealand from COVID-19 using a system called the 'traffic lights'. Its official name is the COVID-19 Protection Framework. Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing. Last updated: 18 July 2022 at 11:53 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. COVID-19 is in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are useful in poorly ventilated indoor areas and when you are around people you do not know. They stop particles spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This is particularly useful when someone has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. You must wear a face mask in some locations. When to wear a face mask If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. COVID-19 symptoms How to get a COVID-19 test Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Using hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs on your hands. Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. Good ventilation helps remove COVID-19 virus particles in the air. We encourage you to let in fresh air every day, including after someone visits your home. If you can, partly open a window about 5cm for most of the day. Or open windows for at least 15 minutes as often as possible, whenever it is practical to do so. If your windows do not open, check if your ventilation system filters (cleans) the air. Ventilation and COVID-19 You are not required to maintain physical distance from others in the traffic light system. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it is in the community. As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to keep a record of where you have been for contact tracing purposes. In case you do test positive for COVID-19, it is still a good idea to: We encourage you to not remove the NZ COVID Tracer app from your phone just yet. Bluetooth tracing is still being used to notify people if they have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing | Ministry of Health (external link) The contact tracing system may need to return if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. Keep track of where you have been Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a booster if it has been at least 3 months since your second dose. Vaccination remains one of the best tools in the fight against COVID-19. Even if you have had COVID-19, getting a booster once enough time has passed gives you another a layer of protection from the virus. Being up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations also helps protect people who are more at risk of becoming seriously ill from the virus and people who cannot be vaccinated such as babies and children under 5 years old. COVID-19 vaccines Last updated: 4 August 2022 at 12:31 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. Find out when you must wear them, how to wear them safely, who is exempt, and how to get free face masks. Face masks help prevent the spread of COVID-19 in 2 ways. The best protection is when everyone wears a face mask. How to wear a face mask safely You can get free medical face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. You still need to order through the Request free COVID-19 RAT kits website. Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find where a mask does not need to be worn, who does not need to wear one, and how to get a Mask Exemption Pass if you need one. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. It should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. You can easily make a fabric face mask. It should have 3 layers, with 1 layer of moisture-resistant fabric. It should have loops around your ears or head.     We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Last updated: 15 August 2022 at 2:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand.  Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. Last updated: 22 July 2022 at 10:02 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: Make sure it is: Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: Use either: The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask.  Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put masks in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face masks. Use either: How to put on and take off a medical face mask [PDF, 287 KB] How to put on and take off a P2/N95 face mask [PDF, 695 KB] How to make your medical face mask fit tightly [PDF, 146 KB] Last updated: 9 August 2022 at 4:21 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: A face mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. There are several things you should think about when choosing a face mask for you. This includes: Whatever face mask you choose, remember any face mask is better than no face mask.  You can use a fabric face mask. The effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut-down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks. Especially when you are in a higher-risk indoor setting. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many surgical masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection. The other layer, preferably a fabric mask, can help stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can soak them in warm, hot or boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear or no longer have a good fit, dispose of them. Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection, when used correctly. For people who are at greater risk of severe illness from COVID-19 the use of a P2/N95 face mask may be a better choice for you. If you choose to wear this type of face mask, it is important to follow the manufacturer's instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face. You need to make sure there are no gaps and you have a tight seal against your face. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face to provide better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. In healthcare settings, these face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ to make sure they have the right type of face mask that suits their face. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for 5 to 7 days between each use. If they no longer provide a tight seal around your face, then you should dispose of them. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. Last updated: 18 July 2022 at 12:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. What you need to know Find a testing site with free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask in the following situations. You can take your mask off to eat and drink. We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask in the following situations. It is strongly recommended that students in Year 4 and above wear face masks in all indoor settings for the first 4 weeks of Term 3. Schools and kura get free face masks for students and staff. Face masks at schools and kura | Te Mahau (external link) You are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings. You do not need to wear a face mask at work at Green. Some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. There are also some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. Find a list of exemptions — where a face mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. Who does not need to wear a face mask Last updated: 10 August 2022 at 9:42 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. We know face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. You still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can show the card to transport operators, retailers and service providers. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass if you cannot wear a face mask — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass (external link) Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, make sure you keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 Last updated: 5 July 2022 at 4:12 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to maintain records for contact tracing purposes. However, if you test positive for COVID-19, you need to tell the people you have been in contact with while infectious that you have COVID-19. This can include others you live with, your colleagues or workplace, friends, or school. Even if your contacts do not have to isolate, they should still be given the information so they can make decisions for themselves. It is still a good idea to: If you test positive, you will be sent a link to an online form, where you can share: This information can help stop the spread of the virus in high-risk locations and protect our vulnerable communities. You can continue to use the NZ COVID Tracer app. We recommend you keep the NZ COVID Tracer app on your phone. We may bring back the contact tracing system if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. NZ COVID Tracer app | Ministry of Health (external link) You can also use the NZ COVID Tracer app to find key links to: To access these links, select ‘Dashboard’, and open the ‘more info’ tab. You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. How Bluetooth tracing works | Ministry of Health (external link) How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app | Ministry of Health (external link) If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] You can also order copies of the NZ COVID Tracer booklet if you cannot print your own. You can also order booklets in other languages. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) Email: Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz The Ministry of Health is no longer publishing locations of interest. Case investigations are focused on high-risk exposures and Household Contacts. Last updated: 7 July 2022 at 11:56 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. COVID-19 mostly spreads by aerosols — small virus particles that can stay in the air for minutes to hours. Good ventilation helps remove virus particles in the air. How COVID-19 spreads If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. You must stay home and avoid contact with people in your household. Keep the air in your room fresh. If you can, open windows on different sides of the room to help airflow. To stop virus particles spreading, reduce airflow from your room to other parts of your home: We encourage you to let in fresh air every day, including after someone visits your home. If you can, partly open a window about 5cm for most of the day. Or open windows for at least 15 minutes as often as possible, whenever it is practical to do so. Try 1 or more of these ways to remove stale air: Steamed-up windows can be a sign of low ventilation. COVID-19 and ventilation | Ministry of Health (external link) Try 1 or more of these ways to refresh air without letting rooms get chilly or damp: You do not have to leave windows or doors open all the time. Heat pumps, air conditioners and ceiling fans do not refresh the air. Instead, they move around air already in a room. You will need to open doors or windows to remove stale air and let in fresh air. If you have a home ventilation system, check if it recycles air or filters air: Air cleaning technologies | Ministry of Health (external link) Landlords must provide good ventilation. If you live in or own a rental property, check ventilation rules on the Tenancy Services website. Ventilation standard | Tenancy Services (external link) Virus particles can build up quickly in crowded places such as buses or trains. It helps to sit or stand close to the door as airflow will be better. Open a window on the bus or train if you can. Taxis and ride-share services often ask passengers to open windows. You must wear a face mask when travelling on public transport and in taxis and ride-share vehicles. When to wear a face mask Last updated: 1 August 2022 at 12:53 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Support to get through COVID-19 | Mental Health Foundation (external link) The All Right? website shares practical tips for looking after yourself and your whānau. Getting through together | All Right? (external link) You can also find a list of tools and information on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Mental health and wellbeing resources | Ministry of Health (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: Te Whare Tapa Whā | Mental Health Foundation (external link) Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | Mental Health Foundation (external link) There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | Netsafe (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | Netsafe (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | Department of Internal Affairs (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | New Zealand Police (external link) Last updated: 7 July 2022 at 12:02 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and the vaccine work against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. Aotearoa New Zealand, just like most other nations, has been flooded with misinformation since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. Misinformation is false, inaccurate or misleading information that is mistakenly or accidently created or spread. It can cause harm if people start to believe it as true. There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. I f you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Last updated: 16 December 2021 at 4:37 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine from a number of trusted sources, including: Find answers to all your vaccine questions, including how safe it is and what side effects you might get, and watch videos about vaccines. COVID-19 vaccines questioned answered | covid19.govt.nz Check out the health advice for you about COVID-19, vaccines, testing, how to take care of yourself and much more. COVID-19: Health advice for the public | health.govt.nz (external link) Find trusted information for you and your whānau on Karawhiua. It is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. Karawhiua | karawhiua.nz (external link) When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. Watch COVID-19 vaccine educational videos to find out about the vaccination journey and how the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine works. COVID-19 information from the Ministry for Pacific Peoples | mpp.govt.nz (external link) Your local district health board (DHB) has information about health and disability services in your region, including information on vaccinations. District health board websites | health.govt.nz (external link) You can also keep up to date by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (IMAC) provides New Zealanders with a local source of independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research regarding vaccine-preventable diseases and the benefits and risks of immunisation. Immunisation Advisory Centre | immune.org.nz (external link) The World Health Organization works worldwide to promote health, keep the world safe, and serve the vulnerable. World Health Organization | who.int (external link) You may need to engage with someone or a group who are spreading false and misleading information within your community or online. It is easy to feel compelled to go and directly confront them. This is not the ideal approach and it may not always be obvious to them what information is not true or factual. Here are some tips on how you might address the situation: Download printed guidance for responding to false information. Guidance for responding to false information [PDF, 759 KB] There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video Last updated: 29 November 2021 at 10:38 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. We can all help stop the spread of misinformation by reporting fake accounts, or pages and domains that repeatedly post or share misinformation. Most misinformation and disinformation is legal. And people have the right to express their opinion. But if you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: Report to Netsafe any online harms including bullying and harassment, misinformation and hate speech/extremism. Report harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Misinformation, including leaflets and scams, can also be reported to CERT NZ. Report COVID-19 misinformation (external link)  Scammers look for ways to trick people into sharing their personal or financial details. Scams and fraud exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police on 105 . Call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link)  There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video Last updated: 29 November 2021 at 10:39 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. There is misinformation and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what it means. There are 3 kinds of misinformation: You might see all of them on social media, including memes, on websites, videos, and in publications, like pamphlets that arrive in your letterbox. They can cause harm because you might make decisions about your health based on the incorrect information that you read or hear. Often misinformation is not deliberately created to harm you. But it is really important that you do not share it, so that it does not spread. Harmful online content includes cyberbullying and inappropriate material, such as violent and sexual material that can cause emotional and physiological distress. Online bullying (also known as cyberbullying) occurs when someone uses digital technology to send, post or publish content intended to cause harm to another person. It can include: Netsafe describes distressing content as content that is hateful content, sexual material or illegal material (like age-restricted material or extreme violence). Offensive or illegal content may include topics, images or other information that could be prohibited in New Zealand. The content can also be upsetting to a young person when they discover it. It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. Netsafe has more information, advice and resources about how to stay safe online. Netsafe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Keep It Real Online has information for tamariki (children) and rangatahi (young people) about being safe online, and also has tools and resources for parents and caregivers. Keep It Real Online | keepitrealonline.govt.nz (external link) You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video Last updated: 29 November 2021 at 10:38 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if you: Our restrictions have eased, but we still need to keep up healthy habits to keep ourselves and our whānau safe. Our high vaccination rates mean we can slowly start to focus on returning to a normal way of life. For some people, the easing of restrictions can be stressful — especially if we have friends or whānau who are vulnerable. It is okay to feel scared or anxious as we adjust to the new settings. You can decide what additional measures suit you best. Let whānau, friends, neighbours and colleagues know what they can do to support you. If you are worried, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. You still need to order through the Request free COVID-19 RAT kits website. Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) (external link) Even if you have had COVID-19, you should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations you are eligible for. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. If you are at high risk of getting seriously ill if you do test positive for COVID-19 again, we recommend you talk to your doctor or health professional for advice on the best timing for your vaccinations. You may be able to receive your vaccination sooner. As restrictions ease, your employer may ask you to return to the workplace. We encourage you to talk to your employer about flexible working arrangements. If you have been working from home for a long time, it can take a while to adjust back to working in an office or other workplace. Let your colleagues and employer know if there is something they can do to make working easier and safer for you. If you work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working. If your child is immunocompromised, or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk to their school or kura about whether changes can be made at their school. The best way to protect your tamariki is by getting them vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination advice for 5 to 11 year olds You can support friends and whānau by: There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support You can find support to access food and other essential supplies, and if you need help with accommodation. COVID-19 support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support Last updated: 18 July 2022 at 11:45 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you or someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, all of you must isolate for at least 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone outside your household to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you all need to self-isolate. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 176 KB] If you need support while you are self-isolating Looking after your mental wellbeing Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) How to self-isolate Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB]  Last updated: 12 August 2022 at 1:39 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. I am looking for... The COVID-19 Healthline kaimahi support people with information and advice about COVID-19. This includes clinical advice about symptoms and non-clinical advice about testing locations. Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Interpreter services are available. Last updated: 7 July 2022 at 1:54 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. Most people who get COVID-19 should be able to manage their symptoms safely at home. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. If you or someone in your household: Call 111 immediately. Tell them you or someone in your household has COVID-19 when you call, so the paramedics can care for you safely. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. If you need medical advice about your symptoms, or other health advice while you and your household are isolating, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Healthline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.    If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly. Maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance and wear a face mask, if possible. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link)  If you are isolating at home because of a public health order, you need to be prepared if there is a natural disaster. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 4:28 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Looking for information in other languages? Information in 30+ languages Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. What you need to know Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. Last updated: 20 June 2022 at 11:28 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information on contact tracing, what you need to do to support contact tracing if you test positive, and receiving alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. You are a Household Contact if you live with, and spent at least 8 hours at a residence with, someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Find out what you need to do. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate. Find out when a Household Contact can return to work under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme or as a 'bubble of 1'. Last updated: 17 June 2021 Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You are a Close Contact in the following situations: You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be notified by: You do not need to self-isolate if you are a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if you develop any, get a test. COVID-19 symptoms Last updated: 26 May 2022 at 8:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Part of New Zealand’s response to Omicron will mean an increased use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) for critical workers. Using RATs will make sure workers are available to maintain critical infrastructure and supply chains. Critical workers are people who work for a critical service or organisation. If you are part of the critical workforce and live with someone who has COVID-19, you may be able to keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. During the Omicron response, workers at registered critical services who are identified as Household Contacts may continue to work. Who is a Household Contact Close Contacts are not eligible for the scheme, as they are not required to isolate. To qualify for an exemption as a critical worker, you must: Under the scheme, you are only allowed to go to work — you cannot go anywhere else. When you are not at work, you must self-isolate. You should talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria to be part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. How to get free RATs How to report your RAT results Critical services include: Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) You may also be able to keep working if you are a Household Contact if you are not customer facing and can maintain your bubble while working. This applies to any workers or sole traders, not just critical workers. To work under a 'bubble of 1', workers must: You do not need to use rapid antigen tests to return to work and businesses will not need to register for the ‘bubble of 1’. Bubble of 1 for workers who are Close Contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) There are no exemptions to wearing a face mask for workers under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme or where the 'bubble of 1' initiative is used. In these cases, workers may need to wear face masks, even if they ordinarily would not. If a worker cannot wear a face mask, they cannot return to work under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme or as a 'bubble of 1'. Last updated: 19 July 2022 at 10:55 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You are a Household Contact if you: You are also a Household Contact if you do not normally share a residence with the person who has COVID-19, but have spent a night together in the same room. For people who are travelling or holidaying around New Zealand, Household Contacts include people who are sharing non-communal holiday accommodation such as a: If you get COVID-19 while travelling The following people may be Close Contacts, but are not Household Contacts: Advice for Close Contacts Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: While you are isolating, try to avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Your isolation ends at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If more than 1 person in your household tests positive after the first person, you do not need to restart your isolation period. You also do not need to isolate again if you have completed isolation as a household contact in the last 10 days. Only restart your 7-day isolation period if you test positive on Day 3 or Day 7, or develop new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. If you develop cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection — either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms — they may be related to your last infection. Stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you become increasingly unwell, seek help from your GP. If you develop new cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms and it has been 29 days or more since of your previous infection, and you are at low risk of severe illness, we recommend you take a COVID-19 test. If it is positive you must self-isolate for 7 days. If you have an underlying health condition or have symptoms that are getting worse, seek advice from a health practitioner or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19  Some people who are Household Contacts and critical workers may be able to still go to work through the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. When you are not at work, you must follow the self-isolation guidance. Critical workers need to be fully vaccinated, have no symptoms and have a negative RAT before going to work. Your employer will let you know if the scheme applies to you. Critical workers There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available Last updated: 9 August 2022 at 1:11 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 11 77 88. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been  Last updated: 9 August 2022 at 11:06 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Find out when you can get a free RAT or PCR test, where to find a community testing centre, and how to report RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs), so follow the instructions in your kit. Positive or negative, you should report your result online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. If you test positive or negative, you should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT). You can only do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. Last updated: 7 July 2022 at 10:55 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. When you should get a test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. You can get free rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a range of locations, including the usual collection sites, marae and some pharmacies. Where to get a test If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Check the list of COVID-19 symptoms If you live with a person who has COVID-19 or have spent at least 8 hours with them in the same home, you are a Household Contact. You must get a test on their Day 3 and Day 7 of self-isolation. Advice for Household Contacts Two types of COVID-19 tests are available to the general public in New Zealand. A health professional can advise you on the right test to take in your situation. COVID-19 test results and their accuracy | Ministry of Health (external link) You are allowed to leave your home to get a COVID-19 test while you are self-isolating. You can order RATs for yourself or on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to confirm your order. You will get an order number. You can then pick up your RATs from a collection site, or have someone collect it for you. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | Healthpoint (external link) Your doctor may offer COVID-19 tests. Call them to find out and follow their advice. There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs). While the instructions are similar for each, make sure to check the instructions in your kit. How to use a RAT Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. R eporting the result means you can get the help you need as early as possible. How to report your RAT result After your test, you must self-isolate until you receive a negative result. You will get your results in a text message from 2328 . It will take 2 to 5 days. If you test positive, the text message will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you have COVID-19 Last updated: 19 July 2022 at 5:26 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Get ready by blowing your nose and then washing and drying your hands. Lay out the contents of your RAT kit — a tube of solution, a stopper, a swab, and the test cassette. Remove the swab (it looks like a long cotton ear bud). Take the soft end and gently glide swab in 1 nostril, going low and slow, about 2 centimetres deep. Twirl the swab over the surface of the nostril around 5 times. Then repeat in your other nostril, going round again slowly 5 times. Get the tube with solution, open it, keep it upright and make sure not to spill it. Place the soft end of the swab into the solution and swirl about 5 times. You want to make sure that the swab is soaked. Pinch the swab as you are removing it — squeeze as much liquid out as you can, to keep it in the tube. Place the stopper firmly on the tube. Give the tube a shake or flick a couple of times so it gets a good mix. Then leave upright for about a minute. With the test cassette ready on a flat surface, take your tube (with the solution of your sample), and turn it upside down. Follow the kit instructions as to how many drops are needed for your test. Squeeze the drops through the stopper onto the well. Wait for 15 minutes — set a timer if that helps. Again, check with the kit instructions as the waiting time may differ. Check for results. If there is no line at the C (C for control), or there are 3 lines, then the test did not work properly this time (it is invalid — this sometimes happens). You will need to do another test. If you see a single line at the C, this shows that the test has worked and you are negative for COVID-19. If you see 2 lines (even if it is a faint line at the T) then this shows you have tested positive for COVID-19. You and your household will need to isolate for at least 7 days. Please report your results (positive or negative): Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. How to report your RAT result This information is available in a printable poster. How to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] The Ministry of Health has information on approved RATs and how to use them. Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 1 June 2022 at 4:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Reporting your results mean you can get the help you need as early as possible. Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. Sign up for My Covid Record (external link) 1. Log in | My Covid Record (external link) 2. Under 'Report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result', tap or click 'Report a test result'.  3. Read the information provided. Tap or click 'Continue'.  4. Tap or click 'Myself', enter your mobile number and tick the box if you consent to receiving COVID-19 information. Tap or click 'Continue'.  5. Indicate which lines are visible on your test by selecting 'Yes' or 'No'.  6. Tap or click 'Enter result'. Advice about what to do next will appear.  If you have entered the wrong result by mistake, you will have 20 minutes to remove it. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, or need help with My Covid Record, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478  You can report a RAT result for someone else through your own My Covid Record account. This will allow them to be provided with any support required while isolating. You will need their: Log in | My Covid Record (external link) You can report a RAT result over the phone if you are having trouble using My Covid Record, or want to report someone else's RAT result and do not have their NHI. Testing requirements for international travellers Last updated: 7 June 2022 at 10:21 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. What you need to know Find out what you need to do: Life at Orange Face masks at Orange COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Last updated: 1 July 2022 at 11:11 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. At all traffic light settings, everyone can access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport, education, and emergency shelter. You do not need to show proof of vaccination. Basics needs are shops and services available to everyone at all traffic light settings and without proof of vaccination. Basic needs include: Basic needs also include essential health and disability services, such as: Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked for proof of vaccination to attend, visit or use: You should wear a face mask on public transport and many indoor public spaces. When to wear a face mask Some places do not require face masks. For some people, wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find out where you do not need to wear a face mask, who does not need to wear one, and how to get a Mask Exemption Pass: Who does not need to wear a face mask Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Retail businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Health providers can find more detailed information on the Ministry of Health website. Aged care providers can find more detailed information on the Ministry of Health website. Social service providers can find more information on the Ministry of Social Development website. Last updated: 11 August 2022 at 4:55 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Find out what you need to do: Life at Orange Face masks at Orange The framework replaced Alert Levels in December 2021. It has 3 traffic light settings of Red, Orange and Green. The framework aims to: It also aims to give people and businesses more stability. At all traffic light settings, essential services will continue to operate. This includes supermarkets, health services, emergency services, goods transport, and utilities such as power and water supplies. A high vaccination rate is a key tool to protect people and minimise the spread of COVID-19. Getting vaccinated means you are less likely to get extremely sick or infect other people. Some workplaces may require staff to be vaccinated. Vaccine mandates for many government workers ended during 2022. Wearing face masks is a way we can protect ourselves and others. At Red and Orange traffic light settings, there are some places you must wear a mask, such as on public transport and in supermarkets. At Red, capacity limits apply in some indoor settings. Limits are based on 1-metre distancing, which means 1 metre square of space for each person, up to the maximum capacity limit. It does not mean everyone must stay 1 metre apart. Capacity limits do not include workers (paid and unpaid). If an area has very high infection rates, extra restrictions such as local lockdowns or other protective steps may be used. Examples of protective steps include: COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] The COVID-19 Alert Level System ends. History of the Alert System At 11:59pm New Zealand moves to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, or traffic light system. Northland, Auckland, Taupo, Rotorua Lakes, Kawerau, Whakatane, Ōpōtiki, Gisborne, Wairoa, Rangitikei, Whanganui, and Ruapehu districts move to Red. The rest of the North Island, and the South Island, move to Orange. Watch 1 December media conference Auckland boundary lifts at 11:59pm. People travelling out of Auckland need to be vaccinated or have proof of a negative test. First confirmed Omicron border case. The international traveller tests positive soon after arriving on 10 December. Genome sequencing then detects Omicron. Watch 16 December media conference Auckland, Taupo, Rotorua Lakes, Kawerau, Whakatane, Ōpōtiki, Gisborne, Wairoa, Rangitikei, Whanganui, and Ruapehu districts move to Orange at 11:59pm. Northland remains at Red. Auckland boundary-crossing rules end. People travelling out of Auckland no longer need proof of vaccination or a negative test. Northland moves to Orange at 11:59pm. First confirmed Omicron community cases. All New Zealand moves to Red at 11:59pm. Watch 23 January media conference The Government introduces Omicron phases, with different approaches to testing and isolation as case numbers grow. Government announces 3-phase public health response to Omicron Our response to Omicron Face mask rules change for Red at 11:59pm. Increased mask use to prepare for Omicron Close Contact exemption scheme begins for workers in key sectors. All New Zealand moves to Phase 2 of the Omicron response at 11:59pm. Watch 16 February media conference All New Zealand moves to Phase 3 of the Omicron response at 11:59pm. Watch 24 February media conference Isolation period drops from 10 to 7 days at 11:59pm. Changes to traffic light settings at 11:59pm include: Vaccine passes are no longer needed in any traffic setting from 11:59pm. Most vaccine mandates end for government workers. All New Zealand remains at Red. Watch 4 April media conference All New Zealand moves to Orange at 11:59pm. Watch 13 April media conference Vaccine mandates end for border and corrections workers. Vaccine mandates end for some workers in the Defence Force, Fire and Emergency, and Police. Last updated: 11 July 2022 at 12:19 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. There are no restrictions. All New Zealand is at Orange. If we move to Green: Learn more about healthy habits We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Last updated: 25 July 2022 at 12:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. At Orange, COVID-19 is in the community, with increasing risks to vulnerable people and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. What to do at Orange: All New Zealand is at Orange . Gatherings can go ahead, including weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation. This information is for domestic travel. Businesses and workplaces can open. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. Venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs can open. Some workers must wear face masks. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open. Tradespeople and home services can visit your home. Schools, kura, early childhood services and tertiary education can open. You may have to wear a face mask. Events such as concerts and sports matches can go ahead. Facilities such as courts, libraries and zoos can open. You may have to wear a face mask. You can move to a new home, and buy, sell or rent a property. You can play sports and attend sporting events. Recreation can go ahead. We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 5:04 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Businesses and workplaces can open. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. If you are a business owner or manager, think about what steps you can take to protect your workers and customers if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan for your business. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Some people must wear a face mask when they are working with members of the public, customers or clients while they are at work — unless they are exempt. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors: Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) Workplaces are open at Orange. Employees should talk to their employers about working at Orange or read more at employment.govt.nz: Working at Orange | employment.govt.nz (external link) There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Requiring My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate need to be fully vaccinated. Vaccination and work If you are a visitor or customer at a business that has chosen to check My Vaccine Passes, you will need to show them your pass. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Children under 12 years and 3 months can enter businesses without a My Vaccine Pass. Businesses can find advice on operating safely under each of the traffic light settings at business.govt.nz. COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Businesses can choose whether to require customers to have My Vaccine Passes as a condition of entry. If businesses choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, they must sight or verify customers' passes. Businesses can use the free NZ Pass Verifier app to check passes quickly and easily. More information on NZ Pass Verifier | Ministry of Health (external link) Use our COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what support may be available for you and your employees. COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for businesses | business.govt.nz (external link) Staff at registered critical services who are Household Contacts may continue to work. They must be fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. Critical workers Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business. Businesses can find more detailed information about the framework on business.govt.nz. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has COVID-19 information. Social service providers can find more information about COVID-19 from the Ministry of Social Development. Last updated: 9 August 2022 at 12:56 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Schools, kura, early childhood services and tertiary education can open, but you may have to wear a face mask. We strongly recommend students in Years 4 and above wear face masks in all indoor settings for the first 4 weeks of Term 3. Schools and kura get free face masks for students and staff. Face masks at schools and kura | Te Mahau (external link) This includes: Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person. My Vaccine Pass is not required, but tertiary providers may have their own requirements. Check with your provider. If you do not meet their vaccine requirements, talk to them about alternative learning options. Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face masks on-site at education services. You do not need to wear a face mask when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We encourage you to wear a face mask indoors wherever it is practical. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Face masks are encouraged when inside at school. For Term 3, we strongly recommend that students in Years 4 and above wear face masks in all indoor settings for the first 4 weeks (where it will not have a significant impact on teaching and learning). All ākonga (students) aged 12 and over must wear face masks on school transport. Face masks at schools and kura | Te Mahau (external link) If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, staff will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household: If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate. What happens if you test positive Household Contacts Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. Public health toolkits from Te Mahau, the Ministry of Education: Early learning connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) Schools connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Managers and staff can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Managers and staff can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. Managers, staff and students can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 5:00 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Events such as concerts and sports matches can go ahead. Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Orange. Examples of events and venues include: You do not need to wear a face mask at an event, either indoors or outdoors. Workers and volunteers at indoor events must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Outdoor community gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration must follow the rules for gatherings. Gatherings at Orange There are no limits on the number of people who can attend an event. This applies indoors and outdoors. Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Event organisers and staff can find more information on business.govt.nz. Events and gatherings guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 3:53 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Gatherings can go ahead, including weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. There are no limits on the number of people who can attend an indoor or outdoor gathering. Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Orange You can serve food and drink at your gathering. People at the gathering do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice. Hospitality at Orange You do not need to wear a face mask when attending a gathering, but it is encouraged. Workers and volunteers at gatherings must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Performers and formal speakers do not need to wear a face mask when performing or speaking. At indoor gatherings, they are encouraged to wear face masks when not performing or speaking. When to wear a face mask Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. Businesses can find more detailed information about gatherings on business.govt.nz. Funeral directors, and religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on the Ministry of Health website. Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 4:23 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs can open. Some workers must wear face masks. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. Food and drink services that only offer takeaways, like coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail: Shopping and services at Orange Customers do not need to wear face masks, but it is encouraged at indoor hospitality venues. Public-facing workers at indoor hospitality venues must wear a medical-grade face mask — unless they are exempt. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Businesses can find more information about the framework on business.govt.nz. Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 5:00 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can move to a new home, and buy, sell or rent a property. You can move house at Orange. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings for any reason, including to move house. Travel and accommodation at Orange There is no limit to how many people can attend open homes and property inspections. Advice for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities at Orange | Real Estate Authority (external link) You do not need to wear a face mask when moving, buying or selling your home. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Real estate agencies can find advice for holding open homes and auctions on the Real Estate Authority website. Landlords and tenants can find more detailed advice on the Tenancy Services website. Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 4:01 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Facilities such as courts, libraries and zoos can open with some restrictions. Public facilities can open at Orange. Examples of public facilities include: Some public facilities may choose to operate with vaccination requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass. Check before you go. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors or at a swimming pool. You must wear a face mask in: Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: Face masks at Orange Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Managers and staff can find more information at business.govt.nz. Find updates on the Department of Internal Affairs website. Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 4:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Orange with some restrictions. Tradespeople and home services can visit your home. Shops, including outdoor markets, banks, food courts and takeaway-only businesses, can open at Orange. Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter the shop. You can visit a close-proximity business at Orange. There is no limit to how many people can be present. Examples of a close-proximity business include: You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Examples of trades and home services are: While they are inside your house it is recommended you: Tradespeople do not need to wear a face mask when inside your home, but it is encouraged. Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you are isolating or are unwell — unless it is an emergency or you have a support carer. If you have COVID-19 Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can remove your face mask to eat or drink. You must wear a face mask: Workers at retail and close-proximity businesses must wear a face mask. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Retailers can find more information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity businesses can find more information at business.govt.nz. Trades and services can find more information on business.govt.nz. Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 4:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can play sports and attend sporting events. Indoor recreation facilities can open, and outdoor recreation can go ahead. Indoor and outdoor sport events can go ahead at Orange. This includes community and professional sport. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open. This includes gyms, dance studios, ice skating rinks, playgrounds and outdoor exercise classes. There are no capacity limits indoors or outdoors. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Orange If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Orange You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors, at a sporting or recreation event, when you are exercising, or playing sport. When face masks do not need to be worn At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Sporting event organisers can find detailed information on business.govt.nz. Sports clubs can find detailed information on Sport New Zealand's website. Recreation businesses can find detailed information on business.govt.nz. Display posters to let everyone know what COVID-19 requirements are in place. Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 3:57 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation. This information is for domestic travel. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason at Orange. There are no regional boundaries. If you are travelling into different setting areas, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. Unless your transport provider requires it, you do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test to travel. You can take public transport, taxis and ride-shares. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, or at bus stops or train stations. If you are self-isolating, you can only leave your home for a few reasons. Do not travel if you are unwell or isolating. If you have COVID-19 What to do if you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling Accommodation can open at Orange. There are no capacity limits. This includes: It does not include private residences. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation facility. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an accommodation facility, follow the relevant advice: Events at Orange Gatherings at Orange Accommodation services can provide food and drink. Customer-facing food and beverage services inside accommodation facilities, other than room service, must follow the advice for hospitality venues. Hospitality at Orange You must wear a face mask: You do not need to wear a face mask at accommodation facilities, but you are encouraged to wear one in public indoor settings. When you must wear a face mask If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Transport providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Find COVID-19 information for transport and travel operators on the Ministry of Transport's website. Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 4:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons. You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Examples include: Follow the advice for gatherings: Gatherings at Orange You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care facility or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting. Do not visit if you are: Guidance for aged care providers | Ministry of Health (external link) You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. Examples include limiting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit if you are: Guidance for health professionals | Ministry of Health (external link) Some prisons allow face-to-face visits for private and legal visitors. Other prisons offer video calls but not in-person visits. You do not need to be vaccinated to visit someone in prison. But you are encouraged to: Check which prisons allow visits on the Corrections website. Prison visit updates | Corrections NZ (external link) (external link)C Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 4:57 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. What to do at Red: All New Zealand is at Orange . If we move to Red: Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with some requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. This information is for domestic travel. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Red with some protections. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can attend sports events and play sports at Red. Recreation can go ahead. We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Last updated: 25 July 2022 at 12:33 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. If you are a business owner or manager, think about what steps you can take to protect your workers and customers if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan for your business. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Some people must wear a face mask when they are working with members of the public, customers or clients while they are at work — unless they are exempt. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors: Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) Workplaces can open at Red. To slow the spread of the disease, we also encourage those who can, to work from home. Working from home is not practical for everyone, but if it is a practical option for you, we are encouraging you to do so. If you are a worker, you can talk to your employer or read more at employment.govt.nz: Working at Red | Employment New Zealand (external link) There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Requiring My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate must be vaccinated. Vaccination and work If you are a visitor or customer at a business that has chosen to check My Vaccine Passes, you will need to show them your pass. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Children under 12 years and 3 months can enter businesses without a My Vaccine Pass. Get your My Vaccine Pass Shopping and services at Red Hospitality at Red Businesses can find advice on operating safely under each of the traffic light settings at business.govt.nz. COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Businesses can choose whether to require customers to have My Vaccine Passes as a condition of entry. If businesses choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, they must sight or verify customers' passes. Businesses can use the free NZ Pass Verifier app to check passes quickly and easily. More information on NZ Pass Verifier | Ministry of Health (external link) Use our COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what support may be available for you and your employees. COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for businesses | business.govt.nz (external link) Staff at registered critical services who are Household Contacts may continue to work. They must be fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. Critical workers Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business. Businesses can find more detailed information about the framework on business.govt.nz. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has COVID-19 information. Social service providers can find more information about COVID-19 from the Ministry of Social Development. Last updated: 7 July 2022 at 5:13 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. This includes: All parents/caregivers and other visitors to early learning, schools and kura are encouraged to maintain 1-metre distancing from other adults while indoors, for example, to settle your child or to view a service. Parents/caregivers who can supervise their children at home are encouraged to do so. This does not prevent parent-led services from opening. If required, services will be able to make choices about their capacity to manage attendance. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person when tertiary sites are open. My Vaccine Pass is not required, but tertiary providers may have their own requirements. Check with your provider. If you do not meet their vaccine requirements, talk to them about alternative learning options. Capacity is based on 1-metre distancing. You do not need to physically distance at a tertiary education facility. However, tertiary providers may impose their own distancing requirements. All parents/caregivers and visitors to education services must wear a face mask indoors. Find a full list of when you need to wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Types of face masks Staff and volunteers must wear medical-grade face masks when indoors. Children do not need to wear a face mask. Staff and volunteers do not have to wear a face mask, but they can if they want to. Children do not need to wear a face mask when attending early learning services or on early learning service transport. This includes buses or vans chartered or used by early learning services to carry children, students and staff. All ākonga (students) aged 8 years or over, or in Year 4 or up, must wear face masks at schools and kura when: Staff and teachers must wear medical-grade face masks when teaching and supporting children in Years 4 and up. Face mask guidance | Ministry of Education (external link) Staff, students and visitors must wear a face mask indoors in public areas at tertiary education facilities, and indoors during teaching and learning activities. Face masks must also be worn indoors when accessing services such as student health, pharmacies and other retailers on-site. If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, staff will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household: If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate. What happens if you test positive Household Contacts Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. Public health toolkits from Te Mahau, the Ministry of Education: Early learning connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) Schools connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Managers and staff can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Managers and staff can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. Managers, staff and students can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Last updated: 5 July 2022 at 3:00 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Red. Events such as concerts and sports matches can go ahead at Red. Public facilities such as courts, libraries and zoos can open at Red with restrictions. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:14 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Events such as concerts and sports matches can go ahead. Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Red. Examples of events and venues include: There can be up to 200 people in a defined space at the venue at any time, based on 1-metre physical distancing. This includes children, but not workers. Defined spaces at Red  Generally, when food and drink is being served, you must remain seated and separated . You can move around when you are not being served or eating. In cinemas, theatres and stadiums, you can buy food and drink from the counter, but you must be seated when you consume it. You must wear a face mask at an indoor event. At outdoor events you do not need to wear a face mask. Event workers and volunteers must wear a face mask at indoor events. They do not need to wear face masks at outdoor events. Performers and entertainers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they can keep 2 metre physical distance from the audience at all times. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: Face masks at Red Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Event organisers and staff can find more information on business.govt.nz. What these are, and how to apply rules on masks and capacity limits. Last updated: 15 July 2022 at 4:56 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Public facilities like courts, libraries and zoos can open with restrictions. Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Examples of public facilities include: Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass at the facilities. Check before you go. Face masks must be worn at indoor public facilities. Maintain 1-metre physical distancing from others wherever possible. Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Public facilities are responsible for working out the capacity limits of each facility, based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave your house, wherever it is practical. You must wear a face mask: You do not need to wear a face mask at swimming pools or outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: Wear a face mask Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Managers and staff can find more information at business.govt.nz. Find updates on the Department of Internal Affairs website. Last updated: 4 August 2022 at 3:44 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with some restrictions. You can have up to 200 people at an indoor gathering at Red. Outdoor gatherings have no limit. You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with indoor gatherings limited to 200 people. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Red. Information on what an indoor and outdoor defined space is, and how it applies to face masks and capacity limits. Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:32 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Indoor spaces are generally considered to be venues that: Examples include many gyms, nightclubs, restaurants and halls. Indoor space is a single defined space if there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces. It does not matter if there is shared air between the spaces. Indoor defined spaces can include temporary structures, like marquees, that are enclosed by temporary walls on multiple sides or plastic domes. Outdoor spaces are generally considered to be places that have good ventilation, with a decent amount of free flowing, fresh air coming into the space. For example, this could be because the venue: An outdoor space is a single defined space if: Outdoor defined spaces can include: Some venues are made up of indoor and outdoor spaces. The activity that occurs in these indoor spaces should determine what capacity limit applies to the indoor space — the rule follows the activity. This means that: If there is more than 1 space on the premises, people using the space (other than workers), cannot mix with other people using, entering, or leaving the premises. Workers can move between gatherings held in different defined spaces. Every venue is different, so it is up to the venue owner or gathering organiser to put measures in place to stop groups of people mixing within each defined space. To ensure groups do not mix, consider: Guidance on capacity limits in indoor and outdoor spaces [PDF, 84 KB] You do not need to wear a face mask at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space. This means that the area can be closed off to the public and is used only by people attending your event or gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering. All workers must wear a face mask at indoor gatherings unless they are exempt. Some venues and facilities may have capacity limits based on their defined space. Capacity limits are based on the number of people who could be in the defined space if everyone stands 1 metre apart, and are limited to a maximum of 200 people. Smaller spaces may need to have fewer than 200 people. When you are working out the maximum number of people allowed in each defined space, do not include workers. More information about gathering limits at Red: Last updated: 21 May 2022 at 11:59 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. A gathering is a group of people who are intermingling. Most faith-based services are gatherings. Examples of faith-based gatherings that can go ahead at Red include: Weddings at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Red Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 246 KB] Indoor faith-based gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor faith-based gatherings have no limit.  Face mask requirements for people at the gathering who are not working will depend on where and how the gathering is held: Where face masks are required, you can remove them to eat and drink. Face masks must not be removed while singing. If 2 metres away from others, performers and workers presenting to an audience can remove their face masks. All workers (paid or unpaid) at faith-based gatherings must wear a face mask throughout the gathering. You can serve food and drink at your faith-based gathering, but people should not share drinks, cups, plates, cutlery or other items. People do not need to sit down to eat or drink, unless your gathering is at a hospitality venue. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice.  Hospitality at Red Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:26 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Red.  There can be up to 200 people in a single defined space at an indoor venue at any time. The limit includes children under 12, whānau pani and ringawera. There is no limit to how many people can be at an outdoor venue. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga, burial or viewing. You can serve food and drink. Defined spaces at Red A marae can have multiple groups of 200 people coming through to attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). Up to 200 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: You do not need to wear a face mask if the funeral or tangihanga has exclusive use of a venue. We encourage you to wear a face mask in shared areas — if there are other activities happening at the venue at the same time. Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Workers hosting or officiating the service do not need to wear a face mask when speaking and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. When you need to wear a face mask There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with indoor gatherings limited to 200 people. At Whero, gatherings at marae can go ahead. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. There can be up to 200 people in a single defined space at the marae at a time. This number includes tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months. Defined spaces at Red Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend if the gathering is outdoors. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Workers and volunteers at a marae must wear a face mask when indoors. If you cannot wear a face mask, for example for medical reasons, you can get an exemption card. Manuhiri (visitors to the marae) do not need to wear a face mask if their gathering is outdoors, or if the gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix. Manuhiri must wear a face mask if the defined space is indoors and shared with other groups or members of the public. Face masks can be removed to eat or drink. They can also be removed by kaikōrero if they can keep 2 metres away from their audience at all times. When you need to wear a face mask You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti. Marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside. People serving or handling kai must wear a face mask. Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB] Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:25 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can have up to 200 people at an indoor gathering at Red. Outdoor gatherings have no limit. Gatherings can go ahead at Red. A gathering is a group of people in a defined space, but does not include a group of people at an event. Types of gatherings include: Find more information: Faith-based gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red Defined spaces at Red You can serve food and drink at your gathering. People at the gathering do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice.  Hospitality at Red You must wear a face mask at an indoor gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering, or at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. This means that you do not need to wear a face mask at most weddings, funerals or tangihanga, or faith-based gatherings. Everyone working at the gathering must wear a face mask — unless they are exempt. Performers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They should wear face masks when not performing. When to wear a face mask Defined spaces at Red You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. Advice for faith-based gatherings Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:29 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, healthcare facilities and prisons at Red. You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Examples include: You and your guests do not need to wear face masks. Learn more about private gatherings at Red You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care facility or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting. Do not visit if you are: Guidance for aged care providers | Ministry of Health (external link) You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. Examples include limiting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit if you are: Guidance for health professionals | Ministry of Health (external link) Some prisons allow face-to-face visits for private and legal visitors. Other prisons offer video calls but not in-person visits. You do not need to be vaccinated to visit someone in prison. But you are encouraged to: Check which prisons allow visits on the Corrections website. Prison visit updates | Corrections NZ (external link) (external link)C You do not need to wear a face mask when you visit friends and whānau at their home, or host a gathering in your own home. You must wear a face mask when visiting: When you must wear a face mask Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Last updated: 12 July 2022 at 3:19 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. You and your guests do not need to wear a face mask if your ceremony is outdoors, or if you have exclusive use of an indoor defined space for your wedding or civil union ceremony — for example,if you have hired a lodge, hall or vineyard. This includes weddings held at private homes. You and your guests must wear a face mask if you do not have exclusive use of the defined space where the wedding is taking place — for example, if members of the public also have access to it. You can take your face mask off to eat and drink. Workers at the wedding or civil union ceremony must wear a face mask, unless they are exempt. Performers, such as a band, do not need to wear a face mask when performing if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They must wear face masks when not performing. When you need to wear a face mask Defined spaces at Red Everyone can move around, dance and mingle. Singing and other types of performance are also allowed. You and your guests do not need to physically distance. You can serve food and drink. If you have exclusively hired a venue for your wedding or civil union ceremony, people do not need to sit down to eat or drink.  Last updated: 2 June 2022 at 11:26 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. There can be up to 200 people indoors, including children. The limit does not include workers. There is no limit for outdoor venues . Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Food courts do not need to follow the seated and separated rules or the capacity limits unless they are serving alcohol. Otherwise, food courts should follow the rules for retail. Shopping and services at Red Food and beverage businesses that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can open. Takeaway services and food courts should follow the rules for retail. Shopping and services at Red You must wear a face mask when at a hospitality business, for example, when paying, using the bathroom and entering and exiting the venue. You can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink. Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave your house wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Public-facing workers at a hospitality business must wear a medical-grade face mask. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: Wear a face mask Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Businesses can find more information about the framework on business.govt.nz. Last updated: 23 June 2022 at 4:56 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can move house at Red. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings for any reason, including to move house. Travel and accommodation at Red Advice for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) Properties can have up to 200 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space at any time. It is the responsibility of the property owner or real estate agent to comply with capacity limits. Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | Real Estate Authority (external link) Defined spaces at Red  Property owners and real estate agents should agree on any face mask requirements for open homes. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Real estate agencies can find advice for holding open homes and auctions on the Real Estate Authority website. Landlords and tenants can find more detailed advice on the Tenancy Services website. Last updated: 30 June 2022 at 4:56 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Red with some protections. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Shops, including outdoor markets, banks, food courts and takeaway-only businesses, can open at Red. The number of people allowed at a retail outlet depends on how large the premises is. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this does not change how many people can be there. If they do, they can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the shop. Defined spaces at Red You can visit a close-proximity business at Red. You should keep 1 metre apart from other customers and workers, except when close contact is required to provide the service. Examples of close-proximity businesses include: Businesses may have additional restrictions under Red, for example, some hairdressers may choose to not provide refreshments. Check with the business before you go. These rules also apply to people providing close-proximity services in people’s homes — for example, mobile hairdressers. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Tradespeople must wear a face mask when inside your home. Examples of trades and home services are: While they are inside your house it is strongly recommended you: Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you are isolating or are unwell — unless it is an emergency or you have a support carer. If you have COVID-19 Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave your house wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can remove your face mask to eat or drink. You must wear a face mask: At a close-proximity business, you may be able to remove your face mask if you could not receive the service if you left it on. An example is getting a beard trim. Check with the staff before you take your face mask off. Retail workers, tradespeople and workers at close-proximity businesses must wear a face mask. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: Wear a face mask Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Retailers can find more information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity businesses can find more information at business.govt.nz. Trades and services can find more information on business.govt.nz. Last updated: 23 June 2022 at 3:31 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can attend sports events and play sports at Red. Recreation can go ahead. Indoor and outdoor sports, including sporting events, can go ahead at Red. This includes professional and community sports, like organised social touch rugby. Spectators should keep 2 metres apart from players. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open at Red. This includes: Businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements and ask to see your My Vaccine Pass. Private clubs, such as golf or tennis clubs, that are not members-only indoor exercise facilities, can choose to restrict their facilities to vaccinated people only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. There is no capacity limit for outdoor sporting events or recreation facilities, for example, exercise classes, community sports or parks and playgrounds. Indoor sport and recreation facilities, for example, stadiums, indoor arenas, or gyms, can have up to 200 people based on 1-metre distancing , in a defined space at the venue at any time. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: It is the responsibility of the business or organiser to ensure indoor venues comply with capacity limits. Defined spaces at Red The limit does not include workers at the venue. Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave your house. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask You do not need to wear a face mask: Gym staff must wear a face mask, except when they are instructing a class and can maintain a 2-metre distance from others. It must be a medical-grade face mask. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Red If you are holding a gathering at a recreation facility, you will need to follow the rules for gatherings. Gatherings at Red Public recreation facilities will follow the guidelines for public facilities. This includes public swimming pools. Public facilities at Red It is the responsibility of the facility to ensure a swimming pool complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Defined spaces at Red You can travel for sport or recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. Travel and accommodation at Red Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Sporting event organisers can find detailed information on business.govt.nz. Sports clubs can find detailed information on Sport New Zealand's website. Recreation businesses can find detailed information on business.govt.nz. Display posters to let everyone know what COVID-19 requirements are in place. Last updated: 4 July 2022 at 10:59 am Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. This information is for domestic travel. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason at Red. There are no regional boundaries. If you are travelling into different setting areas, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. Unless your transport provider requires it, you do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test to travel. You can take public transport, taxis and ride-shares. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, or at bus stops or train stations. If you are self-isolating, you can only leave your home for a few reasons. Do not travel if you are unwell or isolating. If you have COVID-19 What to do if you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling Accommodation can open at Red. There are no capacity limits. This includes: It does not include private residences. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation facility. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an accommodation facility, follow the relevant advice: Events at Red Gatherings at Red Accommodation services can provide food and drink. Customer-facing food and beverage services, other than room service, must follow the food and beverage rules. Hospitality at Red You must wear a face mask: If you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above, you must wear a face mask on public transport and Ministry of Education-funded school transport (school buses). You must wear a face mask if you are indoors at a food and drink business attached to an accommodation provider. You can take your face mask off when seated and to eat and drink. We encourage you to wear a face mask in communal areas. When you must wear a face mask If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: Keep up healthy habits Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Transport providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Find COVID-19 information for transport and travel operators on the Ministry of Transport's website. Last updated: 3 August 2022 at 4:34 pm Languages and resources Contact and support
Do this online or by calling the helpline. How to report your RAT result Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19, and you need to self-isolate. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Search or browse for your local traffic light setting. What you need to do under each traffic light setting:  Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner uses the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures to help you plan your journey. Use Journey Planner (external link) Last updated: 12 May 2022 at 8:10 am Languages and resources Contact and support