This website has everything you need to know about COVID-19 in one place. Learn the simple steps you can take to unite against the virus and slow its spread. Find out what help is available and get the latest updates. Got symptoms? Call your GP before you visit. Or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453. Make a difference by checking-in on others, especially the elderly and vulnerable. Look after anyone that needs help. Drop supplies to those at home sick. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. The Government has released an economic response package to help cushion the impact of COVID-19 and support the economy during the crisis. Self-isolation means staying at home. It's an effective way to help protect those around you. Stay home if you have any of these symptoms: a fever, a cough, shortness of breath, sneezing or a runny nose. There are many ways to slow the spread of the virus and reduce its impact: Families, whānau and all New Zealanders. Anyone running a business. Anyone travelling to and from New Zealand. Clubs, religious groups, societies and shelters. For iwi, hapū, whānau, and marae. Content and advice in other languages. Finance Minister Grant Robertson today outlined a $12.1 billion package to support New Zealanders. 17 Mar 2020 The Government has advised public events or mass gatherings where 500 or more people are together in one place, at one time should be cancelled. 16 Mar 2020 The full Cabinet met this afternoon to make a range of significant decisions to further protect the health of New Zealanders. 14 Mar 2020 Covid-19 is a new type of coronavirus disease. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses which cause illnesses such as the common cold. Also known as severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) or 2019-nCoV, it was identified by Chinese authorities on 7 January 2020. It had not previously been detected in humans or animals. Laboratory testing ruled out other respiratory pathogens such as influenza, avian influenza, adenovirus, and the SARS and MERS coronaviruses. Symptoms include a fever, coughing and shortness of breath. Symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to a range of other illnesses such as influenza and do not necessarily mean that you have COVID-19. If you have these sypmtoms call Healthline (for free) on 0800 358 5453 (or +64 9 358 5453 for international SIMs) or your local doctor for the most up to date profesional advice. If you are severely unwell, for example having trouble breathing, contact emergency services . Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Droplet-spread diseases can be spread by: That's why it's really important to practice good hygiene, regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands , and practice good etiquette by coughing or sneezing into your elbow. You should always practice good hygiene by: People with symptoms of acute respiratory infection should practice good cough etiquette (maintain distance, cover coughs and sneezes with disposable tissues, and wash hands). If you have concerns, you can contact the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. People with underlying medical conditions, such as a compromised immune system, liver disease, cancer, kidney disease, heart disease and diabetes mellitus, need to take more precautions to protect themselves against all infections, including COVID-19. While New Zealand currently has very few cases of COVID-19, and no evidence of sustained person-to-person transmission in our communities, we recommend people take the following simple steps to protect yourself and others: Additional measures that you and your whānau and friends can take include: See a list of Category 2 countries on the health.govt.nz website It is normal to feel stressed or anxious in these situations. For support with grief, anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text the free 'Need to talk?' service on 1737. This is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week for you to talk things through with a trained counsellor. If you are feeling unwell, stay home. Anyone arriving into New Zealand from overseas (except from Pacific countries), or who has been in close contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 should self-isolate for 14 days. If you have symptoms that include, a fever, cough or shortness of breath, sneezing or a runny nose call Healthline (for free) on 0800 358 5453 (or +64 9 358 5453 for international SIMs) or your local doctor for the most up to date professional advice. If you are concerned about any symptoms you are experiencing, please contact your GP (doctor) or Healthline (for free) on 0800 358 5453 ( or +64 9 358 5453 for international SIMs). As part of its response to managing the C OVID -19 outbreak the New Zealand Government announced on Saturday 14 March 2020 further border measures. These include extending travel restrictions and self-isolation requirements for most people arriving into New Zealand. These restrictions will be reviewed after 16 days. For the latest information visit the immigration New Zealand website Guidelines for self-isolation can be found on the New Zealand Ministry of Health’s website . Get u p-to-date information on the Ministry of Health website All global information on COVID-19 from the WHO (World Health Organization) can be found via the following links:
Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more Last modified: 18 March 2020
Read more Read more Read more Last modified: 18 March 2020
We all need to do what we can to slow the spread of COVID-19, and protect New Zealand. An important way to do this is by supporting workers to protect and, where necessary, isolate themselves from others. Any staff who have returned from international travel, or have been in close contact with a confirmed or suspected case of COVID-19, must self-isolate for 14 days. Learn about self-isolation Any staff who are feeling sick, or have: Should stay home and seek medical advice by calling their GP. Or call Healthline (for free) on 0800 358 5453 . Employers should support staff by ensuring they follow public health advice in the workplace. Employers should also: Information about what to do about workers concerned about spreading or being exposed to COVID-19 in the workplace (external link) Information about what to do if a worker has been advised to self-isolate under public health guidance for COVID-19 (external link) Information about what to do if a worker is sick with Covid-19 (external link) Employees should support their employers by: Further guidance for employers and employees (external link) Information about financial assistance for workers and businesses Information about workplace responses to COVID-19 at the employment.govt.nz website (external link) Information update about COVID-19 at the employment.govt.nz website (external link) Last modified: 18 March 2020
Workers and workplaces where physical distancing is not possible – or where people may be more likely to come into contact with infected material – may benefit from additional steps to help protect against the potential spread of COVID-19. It is crucial that workers who handle potentially infected material – such as laundry or used tissues – wash their hands regularly, and avoiding touching their faces. Wearing gloves may be beneficial, but workers should still avoid touching their face while wearing gloves. Facemasks should be worn if cleaning areas that are known, or suspected to be, contaminated. Workplaces where there is close contact between people should be especially vigilant at enforcing the advised steps to avoid spreading COVID-19. This applies to both employees and customers. If a customer or employee shows signs of being unwell such as a fever, cough or shortness of breath, they should be politely encouraged to leave as soon as possible and to seek help by calling their GP (doctor) or call Healthline (for free) on 0800 358 5453 . More information on the use of facemasks and PPE (external link) Information about workplace responses to COVID-19 at the employment.govt.nz website (external link) Information update about COVID-19 at the employment.govt.nz website (external link) Last modified: 18 March 2020
Sole traders can: Information about financial assistance for workers and businesses Information about workplace responses to COVID-19 at the employment.govt.nz website (external link) Information update about COVID-19 at the employment.govt.nz website (external link) Last modified: 18 March 2020
The Government has advised that public events or mass gatherings where 500 or more people are together in one place, at one time should be cancelled. Examples include concerts, festivals and sports matches. This advice will be regularly reviewed. Check whether your group is affected by this advice. Find out more about restrictions at health.govt.nz (external link) Connect with planning going on in your local community around COVID-19. Your local Civil Defence Emergency Management Group may be able to help give advice for your group. Connect with them at CivilDefence.govt.nz (external link) Place tips and advice about COVID-19 in obvious and visible places, including health tips and where to go for help and advice.  Last modified: 18 March 2020
Work with them to develop a plan for what to do if a COVID-19 case is suspected or confirmed in or around your facility. Last modified: 18 March 2020
The best way you can help is to ensure you follow the Ministry of Health advice on staying healthy and self-isolating if unwell. Once you are sure you have your own health in hand, talk to friends, whānau and neighbours to see if anyone in your local networks needs support. Use the internet or local knowledge and networks to connect with and support local clubs and societies. They will be able to tell you where help is needed and how to help those most affected by COVID-19. You can also connect with planning going on in your local community around COVID-19. Your local Civil Defence Emergency Management Group may be able to help connect you with any existing work. Connect with them at CivilDefence.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 18 March 2020
Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more Last modified: 18 March 2020
On 16 March 2020, the Government advised public events, or mass gatherings where 500 or more people are together in one place, at one time, should be cancelled. Examples include concerts, festivals and sports matches. More information about events and mass gathering at the health.govt.nz website (external link) Last modified: 18 March 2020
If you are unwell, or have recently travelled overseas, and are in a home with others (not travel companions) you should minimise close contact with them by avoiding situations where you have face-to-face contact closer than 2 metres for more than 15 minutes. Use your own toothbrushes, eating and drinking utensils (including cups and glasses in the bathroom and bedroom), dishes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. You shoud not share food and drinks or prepare food for others. Wash your dishes separate to others in your home. The other household residents do not need to self-isolate provided these precautions are followed. See ‘ Self-isolation ’ for more information. Last modified: 18 March 2020
To look after our community and make sure our health system is there for those who need it most, we all need to look after our vulnerable populations. One way to do this is to make sure those most at risk of influenza, get immunised first. Get vaccinated against influenza early if you are one of these priority groups: Last modified: 18 March 2020
​Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel stressed or lonely when self-isolating, but there are some things you can do to feel better. Even if you are not sick you may be feeling anxious about COVID-19. This is normal.￼ Reach out to your usual supports – family and whānau, friends and workmates. Sharing how we feel and offering support to others is important. We also recommend sticking to a routine such as having regular mealtimes, bedtimes and exercising. If you feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. For support with grief, anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 – free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week – to talk with a trained counsellor. Spend time in places that feel safe and comfortable as much as possible. Tell yourself that how you are feeling is a normal reaction and will pass – it’s nothing to be afraid of. Keep active – going to work, doing usual leisure activities and seeing friends can improve general wellbeing and help distract from distressing feelings. Last modified: 18 March 2020
Evidence shows children are less susceptible to COVID-19. Parents and caregivers should follow standard guidelines to prevent the virus spreading by: Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events such as COVID-19. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers will have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you are able to stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. Children need factual, age-appropriate information about COVID-19 so that they can also feel informed and in control. They need to know how they can play a part in avoiding infection and the spread of virus. They also need to feel that any fears that they may have can be talked about and addressed. If no one in your family has COVID-19 nor has had close contact with anyone with COVID-19, emphasise to your children that they and your family are fine. Remind them that the right people are working hard to keep New Zealanders safe, including the adults at the children’s school or early learning service. Let your children talk about their feelings, and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. Dr Michelle Dickinson (Nanogirl) has great information for kids about COVID-19.​ Last modified: 18 March 2020
COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. It’s caused by a type of coronavirus. There are simple steps you can take to protect you, your family and whānau. The symptoms of COVID-19 are: These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. We’re still learning about COVID-19. We don’t yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected. Current evidence suggests it is 2–10 days. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. People may get infected by the virus if they touch those surfaces or objects, and then touch their mouth, nose or eyes. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands, and use good cough and sneeze etiquette. Last modified: 18 March 2020
​​The following members of our community are more vulnerable to COVID-19: Read more guidance for aged care professionals at health.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 18 March 2020
If you are diagnosed with COVID-19 you will be told what to do by your medical professional. This will include: Last modified: 18 March 2020
Read more Last modified: 18 March 2020
The Government has recently issued advice about cancelling mass gatherings/events. This is an important aspect of our public health strategy to delay the onset of community transmission of COVID-19, and to limit the infection’s spread if community transmission occurs. Cancelling mass gatherings will help slow the spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand, reduce the number of people infected, and protect those who are more vulnerable to severe illness (such as our kaumātua). This advice currently applies to non-essential gatherings (sporting events, music festivals, arts festivals and private events) but NOT to essential events (parliament, school, preschool, work, university). Many groups including kapa haka groups, sports teams, whānau, hapu, iwi and Māori organisations and marae committees will need to work through how the advice impacts any upcoming events they are planning – including whānau reunions, hui/wānanga, and celebratory events like birthdays and weddings. It is disappointing to have to cancel planned events, however, it is about doing what’s right to protect our people and our guests - manaaki tangata, otirā manaaki manuhiri hoki. For those who sadly have tangihanga, we kindly ask that you consider what variations to tikanga and kawa can be made to ensure manaaki tangata for all who attend. For example: We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori (including kawa), as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi (particularly those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua - our koroua and kuia). In practice, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū, alongside stopping kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include, waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings.  Read more information about gatherings at the health.govt.nz website (external link) Last modified: 18 March 2020
The impact of COVID-19 and related border measures are affecting the frequency of international flights, including flights to and from New Zealand, and causing travel disruption around the world. New Zealand travellers overseas should contact their airlines and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. New Zealand travellers should also contact their travel agent or airline if they are travelling from, or transiting through, areas affected by border measures. New Zealanders seeking emergency consular assistance should call +64 99 20 20 20 (if overseas) or 0800 30 10 30 (if in New Zealand). More information and advice is on the SafeTravel website. Find more information at safetravel.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 18 March 2020
Cruise ships are banned from coming into New Zealand until at least 30 June 2020. New Zealanders are advised to avoid all non-essential overseas travel, including cruises. The virus can spread quickly onboard cruises due to the close contact between passengers. Some cruise ships have been put into quarantine, and countries have denied entry to ports, which can have significant consequences for travellers. Last modified: 18 March 2020
Taking a domestic flight is ok. But if you are feeling unwell, particularly with a cough, shortness of breath or fever, or if you’re sneezing or have a runny nose, stay home. If you are on a flight, it is particularly important that you cough or sneeze into the crook of your elbow. Where possible carry hand sanitizer and tissues. If it’s possible, sit in a window seat in a row by yourself. Last modified: 18 March 2020
Foreign travellers who have been present in, or transited through, Iran or mainland China in the previous 14 days, cannot enter New Zealand. This does NOT apply to New Zealand citizens, permanent residents or residents with valid travel conditions and their immediate family, who will still be able to come to New Zealand. Australian citizens and permanent residents are also NOT subject to the travel restrictions if New Zealand is their primary place of established residence. All travellers are required to self-isolate for 14 days when they arrive in New Zealand. The only exclusions are people who travelled from the Pacific Islands listed in Category 2 (external link) countries. (Please note: this excludes airport transit, ie if you arrived via the Pacific Islands listed, but your journey started elsewhere, then you will still need to go into self-isolation.) People travelling from the Pacific Islands listed below do not need to self-isolate: You must fill out the supplied COVID-19 passenger health form on arrival, to register your details with the Ministry of Health. What does self-isolation mean?  You may require transport from the airport to get to your home, or other accommodation, where you will self-isolate. It is OK to use your own vehicle if you have that at the airport. You can only use public transport (taxis, buses, riding sharing services or other public transport) after you arrive in New Zealand, for the SOLE purpose of getting directly to the place where you will self-isolate. Where possible while travelling, sit in a window seat, in a row by yourself, to limit contact with o thers. If you are unwell you should seek advice from Healthline on 0800 358 5453 before travelling further. Once you get to your destination, you cannot use public transport again during your 14 day isolation period . However, y ou can use your own transport (car, bike etc) when required, so long as you continue to isolate yourself from others. If you are using rented accommodation, like rental homes, hotels, motels, or Air BnBs , you must let them know in advance of your need to self-isolate. We know that the majority of people who will need to self-isolate will be healthy. However, operators may make their own decisions about whether they allow you to use their accommodation. Where possible, contact a friend, family member or delivery services to carry out errands like supermarket shopping on your behalf. Ask delivery services to leave supplies on your doorstep, to avoid contact. If you are visiting from overseas, there are numerous services in New Zealand that will deliver goods and supplies to your door, which can be easily found by searching online. Simply contact them over the web or call them to order and arrange delivery. If you experience symptoms, such as fever, cough or difficulty breathing, please self-isolate and phone Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you don’t know what to do or would like more information, please call the Government Helpline on 0800 779 997 . Find more inform ation by visiting the (external link) Immigration New Zealand website (external link) . Or call Immigration New Zealand on 0508 225 288 (within New Zealand) or +64 9 952 1679 (outside New Zealand). Last modified: 18 March 2020
Our overall travel advice for New Zealanders is to avoid all non-essential overseas travel. MFAT is closely monitoring the international situation, and continues to review its SafeTravel advice related to COVID-19. New Zealanders are advised to register their details with SafeTravel, in order to receive notification of any changes made to the travel advice for their destinations. Register your details at safetravel.govt.nz (external link) We also recommend travellers consult the official website of the country they wish to enter, or that country's diplomatic representative in their country of departure, before travelling. Last modified: 18 March 2020
Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more Last modified: 17 March 2020
Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Now’s a good time to be extra vigilant when cleaning – clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about three days and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, they should be cleaned first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. More information about cleaning surfaces on thespinoff.co.nz website (external link) Last modified: 18 March 2020
Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them getting onto your hands. Put any used tissues in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. If other people touch these surfaces they may get sick. For most people facemasks are not recommended. Facemasks play an important role in clinical settings, such as hospitals. For people with symptoms of an acute respiratory infection, there may be benefit in wearing a face mask to reduce the spread of infection to other people.  Last modified: 18 March 2020
In response to COVID-19 the Government is acting to support the economy . The $12.1 billion package includes: Wage subsidies will be available for all employers that are significantly impacted by COVID-19 and are struggling to retain employees as a result. The scheme will be open to all businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed. Wage subsidies will be available for businesses in all sectors and all regions that can show a 30% decline in revenue for any month between January and June 2020 compared to the year before (including projected revenue). Read more information including how to apply (external link) Workers and businesses have an important role in slowing the spread of COVID-19. The COVID-19 leave and self-isolation scheme financially supports workers to self-isolate, or stay home when sick with COVID-19. Helping businesses and workers to do the right thing. The COVID-19 Leave Payment is available for people who: Read more information including how to apply at workandincome.govt.nz (external link) Business cash flow and tax measures include: Read more information about COVID-19 tax relief measures at ird.govt.nz (external link) Other elements of the $12.1 billion package include income support, and further investment in the health response. Read about the wider $12.1 billion package at treasury.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 18 March 2020
Kindness is an incredibly powerful way to show you are united against COVID-19. You can make a huge difference by: These kinds of connections and offers of help will go a long way to getting others through COVID-19. Last modified: 18 March 2020
Physical distancing (sometimes known as ‘Social distancing’) is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. Two metres is the recommended physical distance to keep. Physical distancing is an important way to unite against COVID-19, for anyone who doesn’t need to be in self-isolation. (Self-isolation is more about taking a precautionary measure to protect against the spread of COVID-19.) Find out more about self-isolation. It’s best not to shake hands, kiss hello or hongi for now. Where you can, keep a bit of space. Last modified: 18 March 2020
Self-isolation means staying at home as a precaution. It’s an effective way to help protect those around you – your family, whānau, friends, colleagues – from COVID-19. Anyone arriving into New Zealand after 1:00am on Monday 16 March from any country except the Pacific needs to self-isolate for 14 days. If you develop symptoms of COVID-19 like a cough, fever, shortness of breath, sneezing or a runny nose, call your GP (doctor). If you do not have a GP call Healthline (for free) on 0800 358 5453 . Stay at home, and take simple, common-sense steps to avoid close contact with other people as much as possible, like you would with the flu. Limit your contact with people other than the family, whānau or companions you travelled with. Keep yourself out of any situation where you come into face-to-face contact with others who are less than 2 metres away, or make any contact that lasts longer than 15 minutes. Particular care should be taken around child care and pre-school centres, primary and secondary schools (including staff and students), aged care, health care facilities, prisons and public gatherings. If you live with others who haven’t also recently travelled, you should minimise close contact with them. That means avoiding situations where you have face-to-face contact closer than 2 metres for more than 15 minutes. Other residents do not need to self-isolate, provided common sense precautions like the ones on this page are followed. If self-isolating, you should not be sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area during the 14 day period. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can be opened. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible and keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. Clean surfaces with disinfectant after you use them. Try to avoid touching them after you have cleaned them. This includes areas like kitchen benches and sinktops. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house, both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for hand-hygiene purposes. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. If you use a shared toilet and bathroom, it’s important that you clean them after you have used them every time (for example, wiping surfaces you have come into contact with). It is a good idea to be the last to use the shower/bath in the morning or evening to make this easier on those you live with. You should use your own roll of toilet paper, hand towels, toothpaste and other supplies during your stay at home. If you share a kitchen with others, avoid using it while others are present. Take your meals back to your room to eat. It may be easier for someone else in your household to prepare your food and you avoid the kitchen area. If you have one, use a dishwasher to clean and dry your used crockery and cutlery. If this is not possible, wash them using your usual washing up liquid and warm water and dry them thoroughly, remembering to use a separate tea towel. We understand that it will be difficult for some people to separate themselves from others at home. You should do your very best to follow this guidance and everyone in your household should regularly wash their hands, avoid touching their face and clean frequently touched surfaces. Don’t share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, you should wash them thoroughly with soap and water, place them in the dishwasher for cleaning, or wash them in the sink. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but you should not prepare food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate to others in your home. If you have a garden, it is a good idea to do gardening, as you aren’t in close contact with other members of your household. Staying at home may present its own challenges, but there are things you can do to make the 14 days easier: Don’t use public transport, taxis or similar transport methods during your 14 day period. You can only use public transport after you arrive in New Zealand for the sole purpose of returning to your home, but you cannot use it after that. You can use your own transport means (car, bike etc) whenever you wish. Don’t invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. You should avoid having visitors to your home, but it is okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Do not shake dirty laundry; this minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items (such as towels and tea towels) and provide a supply for you. You should do your own laundry. Dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person can be washed with other people’s items. If you do not have a washing machine, wait a further 72 hours after your 14-day isolation period has ended before taking your laundry to a laundrette. If your children didn’t travel overseas with you, they can continue to attend school and other normal activities. You should reduce your close contact with them, however that may not be possible with children, particularly young children. Try to explain to your children what is happening in a way that is easy to understand. Tell them you are staying at home to protect other people. Try to avoid worrying children. Remind them you are not sick, and it’s unlikely you will become sick, but you are being very safe to protect them and other New Zealanders. What we have seen so far is that children with COVID-19 appear to be less severely affected. It is nevertheless important to do your best to follow this guidance. If a child develops symptoms, you should call your GP first. Otherwise call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . They will also need to stay at home for 14 days from the onset of their symptoms. There is currently no clinical evidence to suggest that the virus can be transmitted through breast milk. Infection can be spread to the baby in the same way as to anyone in close contact with you. The benefits of breastfeeding outweigh any potential risks of transmission of the virus through breast milk or by being in close contact with your child. If you wish to breastfeed, take precautions to limit the potential spread of COVID-19 to the baby by: If you are feeding with formula or expressed milk, sterilise the equipment carefully before each use. You should not share bottles or a breast pump with someone else.  Last modified: 18 March 2020
IF you have any of these symptoms: THEN call your GP, before you visit. If you do not have a GP call Healthline (for free) on 0800 358 5453 . You also need to:  Read more about self-isolating at home at Health.govt.nz (external link) Last modified: 18 March 2020
The same goes for hand sanitiser: use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially at the following times: Always wash your hands at the following times: No, you can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. Cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses – as long as you use soap. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you are outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. Last modified: 18 March 2020
17 Mar 2020 Finance Minister Grant Robertson today outlined a $12.1 billion package to support New Zealanders. 16 Mar 2020 The Government has advised public events or mass gatherings where 500 or more people are together in one place, at one time should be cancelled. 14 Mar 2020 The full Cabinet met this afternoon to make a range of significant decisions to further protect the health of New Zealanders.
Finance Minister Grant Robertson today outlined a $12.1 billion package to support New Zealanders and their jobs from the global impact of COVID-19. Read more (external link) Back to the news Last modified: 18 March 2020
The Government has advised public events or mass gatherings where 500 or more people are together in one place, at one time should be cancelled. Examples include concerts, festivals and sports matches. Read more (external link) Back to the news Last modified: 18 March 2020
The full Cabinet met this afternoon to make a range of significant decisions to further protect the health of New Zealanders and reduce the threat of transmission of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Read more (external link) Back to the news Last modified: 18 March 2020
Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19 in one place. Get reliable information, updates, and answers to your FAQs.  Learn the simple steps you can take in your everyday life to unite against the virus and slow its spread. Last modified: 18 March 2020
This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We don’t use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site (including in terms linking to the site). No need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. Statistical information collected We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. Google Analytics We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this site. The information Google Analytics collects includes: Use of statistical information The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) This site generates persistent session cookies (that is, they have an expiry date and are removed on that date) for the purpose of monitoring site usage. The cookies don’t collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. Last modified: 18 March 2020
By viewing and using this site, you agree to these Terms of use. Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website hosted and operated by NZ Government. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to agree to these Terms of use. NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Email us for further information. Email: Pim@NCMC.govt.nz  Unless indicated otherwise, all content Last modified: 18 March 2020